<a id="s10-3"></a>

## 10.3. Attack Techniques

There are six different types of attack Techniques, five of which are represented by elemental properties. Fire, Water, Energy, Force and Gravity Techniques inflict damage to enemies in the form of their element. As most enemies have some weakness, resistance of immunity to different elements, using the right Technique can be very important. Death Techniques are fairly self-explanatory, as they attempt to inflict instant death upon enemies. The instant-death Techniques only work on organic enemies.

<!-- MIXED -->

| Fire \________________ | Water \_______________ | Energy \______________ |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Tech    Cost   Damage |  | Tech    Cost   Damage |  | Tech    Cost   Damage |  |
| FOI     3 TP   20-120 |  | WAT     4 TP   30-130 |  | TSU     6 TP   40-140 |  |
| GIFOI   6 TP   80-160 |  | GIWAT   7 TP  100-170 |  | GITHU  12 TP  110-190 |  |
| NAFOI   9 TP  160-230 |  | NAWAT  10 TP  180-240 |  | NATHU  16 TP  190-250 |  |
| _______________________ |  | _______________________ |  | MEGID  30 TP  270-360 |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

| Force \_______________ | Gravity \_____________ | Death \______ |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Tech    Cost   Damage |  | Tech    Cost   Damage |  | Tech    Cost |  |
| ZAN     8 TP   20-110 |  | GRA    10 TP   50-120 |  | VOL     8 TP |  |
| GIZAN  12 TP   80-160 |  | GIGRA  15 TP  120-170 |  | SAVOL  16 TP |  |
| NAZAN  16 TP  150-220 |  | NAGRA  19 TP  190-240 |  | BROSE  16 TP |  |

FOI   - Usable by Alys, Rune and Kyra.

**Also usable by Juza, Tech User and TechMaster.**

3 TP

A weak fire-based Technique that causes a small flame to erupt on

the enemy. Effective against most monsters in a cold climate.

Can only be used in battle.

GIFOI - Usable by Alys, Rune and Kyra.

**Also usable by Dark Witch and Le-Faw-Gan.**

6 TP

The second fire Techinique, this throws three small fireballs at

the enemy. Effective against most monsters in a cold climate.

Can only be used in battle.

NAFOI - Usable by Alys, Rune and Kyra. ¯¯¯¯¯ 9 TP Most powerful of the group, this Technique creates a pillar of fire on the enemy. Effective against most monsters in a cold climate. Can only be used in battle.

WAT   - Usable by Hahn and Rune.

**Also usable by Elmelew, Hewgilla, Juza, Tech User and TechMaster.**

4 TP

The weakest water Tech, this creates a shard of piercing cold on

the enemy. Effective against most monsters in a hot climate.

Can only be used in battle.

GIWAT - Usable by Hahn and Rune.

**Also usable by Dark Witch, D-Elm-Lars, FrostSaber, Tech-Plant,**

7 TP     and Xe-A-Thoul.

Stronger than earlier version, this Technique fires three balls of ice at the enemy. Effective against most monsters in a hot climate. Can only be used in battle.

NAWAT - Usable by Hahn and Rune. ¯¯¯¯¯ 10 TP The strongest water Techinique, it causes a number of shards of ice to impale an enemy. Effective against most monsters in hot climate. Can only be used in battle.

TSU - Usable by Chaz. ¯¯¯ 6 TP An energy-based Technique, Chaz fires a high-intensity light beam at the enemy. Can only be used in battle.

GITHU - Usable by Chaz. ¯¯¯¯¯ 12 TP Far more intense than the first energy Tech, Chaz unleashes a wide light beam at the enemy. Can only be used in battle.

NATHU - Usable by Chaz. ¯¯¯¯¯ 16 TP The most powerful energy Technique, Chaz unleashes a super-intense, wide light beam at the enemy. Can only be used in battle.

ZAN   - Usable by Chaz, Alys and Hahn.

**Also usable by Juza and TechMaster.**

8 TP

A fairly weak force Technique that creates a small whirlwind around

each enemy.

Can only be used in battle.

GIZAN - Usable by Chaz, Alys and Hahn.

**Also usable by Dark Witch, D-Elm-Lars, Gi-Le-Farg, Le-Faw-Gan,**

12 TP    Tech-Plant and Xe-A-Thoul.

The second of the force Techs, is causes two large typhoons to swirl around all the enemies. Can only be used in battle.

NAZAN - Usable by Chaz, Alys and Hahn. ¯¯¯¯¯ 16 TP Of the force Tech group, this is the strongest. It generates a huge tornado on all enemies. Can only be used in battle.

GRA   - Usable by Rune and Kyra.

**Also usable by DimensWorm and OuterBeast.**

10 TP

The first gravity-based Tech, this inflicts rapid but small pockets

of gravity on each enemy.

Can only be used in battle.

GIGRA - Usable by Rune and Kyra.

**Also usable by OuterBeast.**

15 TP

A stronger gravity Tech, it inflicts slower but more intense areas

on each enemy.

Can only be used in battle.

NAGRA - Usable by Rune and Kyra. ¯¯¯¯¯ 19 TP Greatest of the gravity Techs, slow but extreme pockets of gravity contort each enemy. Can only be used in battle.

VOL   - Usable by Hahn.

**Also usable by BloodSaber, Greneris and SoldrFiend.**

8 TP

This Tech allows Hahn to generate a field of energy that may shut

sdown an enemy's nervous system. If successful, it is destroyed.

Can only be used in battle. Only works against organic beings.

SAVOL - Usable by Hahn. ¯¯¯¯¯ 16 TP Hahn's second instant-death Tech, and far more powerful, this has exactly the same effect as VOL, but inflicts it upon all enemies. Can only be used in battle. Only works against organic beings.

BROSE - Usable by Chaz and Gryz. ¯¯¯¯¯ 16 TP A unique Tech that attempts to split the target's molecules apart. If successful, the enemy is destroyed. Low success rate. Can only be used in battle. Only works against organic beings.

MEGID - Usable by Chaz.

**Also usable by Re-Faze and Profound Darkness (3).**

30 TP

This Technique, the most powerful of them all, transforms feelings

of anger into a destructive wave of energy. Chaz must acquire this

energy-based Tech from Anger Tower.

Can only be used in battle.
