<a id="s10-4"></a>

## 10.4. Misc Techniques

The three types of Misc Techniques are Assist, Hinder and Travel. The first two types are used in battle. Assist Techniques increase the statistics of one or all members of the party, and Hinder Techniques create non-damaging effects on all the enemies. Finally, Travel Techniques transport the party instantaneously. They can only be used in the field.

<!-- MIXED -->

| Assist \_____ | Hinder \_____ | Travel \_____ |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Tech    Cost |  | Tech    Cost |  | Tech    Cost |  |
| DEBAN   5 TP |  | GELUN   3 TP |  | HINAS   4 TP |  |
| SHIFT   7 TP |  | DORAN   4 TP |  | RYUKA  10 TP |  |
| SANER   8 TP |  | SEALS   9 TP |  | ______________ |  |
| ______________ |  | RIMIT  12 TP |  |  |  |

DEBAN - Usable by Rika.

**Also usable by BloodSaber, FrostSaber, Radhin, ShadowSabr.**

5 TP

A remarkably useful Technique, it slightly increases the Defence

Power of all party members.

Can only be used in battle.

SHIFT - Usable by Alys and Rika.

**Also usable by BloodSaber, ChaosBrngr, DarkMaraud, DeathBearr and**

7 TP     Radhin.

Fairly poor for its cost, this Technique slightly increases the Attack Power of one character. Can only be used in battle.

SANER - Usable by Alys and Rika.

**Also usable by Radhin.**

8 TP

This Technique is exceptionally useful in longer battles, as it

increases the Agility of all party members.

Can only be used in battle.

GELUN - Usable by Hahn.

**Also usable by Greneris.**

3 TP

A mostly pointless Technique, this may slightly decrease enemies'

Attack Power. It targets all enemies, but its success rate is low.

Can only be used in battle.

DORAN - Usable by Hahn.

**Also usable by DarkMaraud and Greneris.**

4 TP

Like Gelun, this is not a very useful Technique. It targets all

enemies and may lower their Agility. Its success rate is low.

Can only be used in battle.

SEALS - Usable by Rune and Raja.

**Also usable by ChaosBrngr, DeathBearr and Radhin.**

9 TP

Very useful against enemies with Techniques, this may remove the

ability to use them. It targets all enemies.

Can only be used in battle.

RIMIT - Usable by Hahn and Raja.

**Also usable by Greneris and Tech-Plant.**

12 TP

A considerably overpriced Technique, it has a chance of inflicting

Paralysis on each enemy. Its success rate is low.

Can only be used in battle.

HINAS - Usable by Chaz and Rune. ¯¯¯¯¯ 4 TP One of the invaluable travel Techniques, this automatically takes the party outside or to the entrance of the dungeon. Can only be used in dungeons.

RYUKA - Usable by Chaz and Rune. ¯¯¯¯¯ 10 TP An extremely useful Technique, this teleports the party to any town or village they have already visited. Can only be used outside or in a town or village.
