<a id="s11-3"></a>

## 11.3. Attack Skills

There are three types of attack Skill - physical attack Skills, magical attack Skills and android attack Skills. The difference between these types is that physical attack Skills require the use of a weapon (the Skill is unavailable if no weapon is equipped), whereas the other attack Skills don't. Also, unless otherwise stated, the damage inflicted by physical attack Skills is based on the ATK PWR of the character, and the damage inflicted by magical attack Skills is based on the character's MTL PWR. Android attack Skills involve special hardware and vary in effect.

<!-- MIXED -->

| Physical |  | Magical |  | Android |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Hit-one      Hit-all |  | Hit-one      Hit-all |  | Hit-one      Hit-all |  |
| CRASH       AIRSLASH |  | ASTRAL      CORRSION |  | FLARE       BURSTROC |  |
| CROSSCUT     DISRUPT |  | DIEM           EFESS |  | SPARK         PHONON |  |
| DBLSLASH    SWEEPING |  | DTHSPELL        HEWN |  | POSIBOLT |  |
| DEATH |  | EXPLODE       LEGEON |  | ______________________ |  |
| ELIMINAT |  | FLAELI       NEGATIS |  |  |  |
| RAYBLADE |  | HOLYWORD    ST. FIRE |  |  |  |
| VORTEX |  | TANDLE |  |  |  |

CRASH - Usable by Gryz. ¯¯¯¯¯ Gryz takes his axe and strikes a precise blow on one enemy, with the possibility of causing instant death. Can only be used in battle.

CROSSCUT - Usable by Chaz. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Chaz uses his sword or dagger to slash across an enemy, then immediately strike down it, causing increased attack damage. Can only be used in battle.

DBLSLASH - Usable by Rika.

**Also usable by Debugger, Dominator, HungryMole and Red Mole.**

(DBL SLASH)

Rika performs two successive attacks with each claw she has equipped, causing increased attack damage to one enemy. Can only be used in battle.

DEATH - Usable by Alys. ¯¯¯¯¯ Alys throws a slasher at an enemy with such accuracy that it has a chance of instantly killing the enemy. Can only be used in battle.

ELIMINAT - Usable by Hahn and Rika. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ The character phases in front of an enemy, holding out their weapon in an attempt to kill the enemy. May cause instant death. Can only be used in battle.

RAYBLADE - Usable by Chaz. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Chaz infuses his weapon with the elemental property of energy, striking at an enemy to inflict typical damage of 200-270 HP. Can only be used in battle.

VORTEX - Usable by Alys. ¯¯¯¯¯¯ Alys spins one slasher at an acute angle towards one enemy, forming a spiral effect causing greatly increased attack damage. Can only be used in battle.

AIRSLASH - Usable by Chaz.

**Also usable by BloodSaber, FrostSaber and ShadowSabr.**

Chaz performs a wide arcing swing with his weapon, hitting all enemies and inflicting normal attack damage to each. Can only be used in battle.

DISRUPT - Usable by Rika. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Rika temporary splits into a number of separate copies that simultaneously strike each enemy, causing normal attack damage. Can only be used in battle.

SWEEPING - Usable by Gryz. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Gryz swings his axe in a strong, singular sweep across the enemies, inflicting normal attack damage to each. Can only be used in battle.

ASTRAL - Usable by Hahn. ¯¯¯¯¯¯ Hahn creates an astral force that is fired into an enemy, causing radiation-based damage of about 220-270 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

DIEM - Usable by Rune. ¯¯¯¯ Rune creates a few small pockets of negative energy that pull the life from one enemy, causing instant death to organic life. Can only be used in battle.

DTHSPELL - Usable by Seth.

**Also usable by Illusionst, Imagiomage and Spector.**

Similar to DIEM, this spell sucks all life from an enemy, reducing it to an empty carcass. Only works on organic enemies. Can only be used in battle.

EXPLODE - Usable by Chaz. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Chaz transforms into pure energy and attempts to rematerialise inside an enemy, causing it to explode. May cause instant death. Can only be used in battle.

FLAELI   - Usable by Rune and Kyra.

**Also usable by ChaosSorcr, Gi-Le-Farg, Illusionst, Imagiomage**

and Sa-Lews.

Rune creates four small spheres of fire that simultaneously strike an enemy, causing between 80-140 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

HOLYWORD - Usable by Raja. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ With a single word, Raja summons the power of heaven to strip life from an enemy. Very effective against enemies of Darkness. Can only be used in battle.

CORRSION - Usable by Seth.

**Also usable by ChaosSorcr, Dark Force (3), Haunt, Illusionst,**

Imagiomage, Spector and Zio (2). (CORROSION)

A spell of Darkness, this wave of destruction pulls apart all enemies in its wake, causing between 200-240 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

EFESS - Usable by Rune. ¯¯¯¯¯ Rune calls energy from the heavens to create a beam of pure light onto each enemy. This causes about 210-250 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

HEWN     - Usable by Rune and Kyra.

**Also usable by ChaosSorcr, Illusionst, Imagiomage, Phantom,**

Sa-Lews and Zio (2).

A powerful vortex is created on each enemy, rending them with razor-sharp lashes to cause between 90-160 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

LEGEON   - Usable by Rune.

**Also usable by Imagiomage and Sa-Lews.**

Rune's most powerful spell, it unleashes a barrage of radiation onto all enemies. This causes typical damage of 290-320 HP. Can only be used in battle.

NEGATIS - Usable by Rune. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ A hit-all version of DIEM, Rune creates pockets of negative energy that cause instant-death to all organic enemies. Can only be used in battle.

ST. FIRE - Usable by Raja. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Raja sends forth a wave of pure light that covers all enemies in holy fire, typically inflicting 180-240 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

TANDLE   - Usable by Rune and Kyra.

**Also usable by ChaosSorcr, Gi-Le-Farg, Illusionst, Imagiomage,**

Le-Faw-Gan and Sa-Lews. (TANDIL)

The only electric-based Skill available, this causes multiple bolts of lightning that cause between 190-240 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

FLARE - Usable by Wren. ¯¯¯¯¯ Wren's built-in weapon projects a beam of high-intensity radiation onto one enemy, causing between 170-220 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

SPARK    - Usable by Demi and Wren.

**Also usable by Browren486.**

The android injects a powerful EMP into one enemy, possibly causing instant death to machines. Can only be used in battle.

BURSTROC - Usable by Wren.

**Also usable by Dark Force (1).**

A series of missiles are fired into the air, striking down on all enemies in a blaze of fire, inflicting 180-220 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

PHONON   - Usable by Demi.

**Also usable by Dark Force (1) and Dominator. (PHONONMASR)**

This powerful weapon projects high-frequency and destructive sound waves at all enemies, causing about 190-270 HP damage. Can only be used in battle.

POSIBOLT - Usable by Wren. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Wren fires a super-intense beam of extreme radiation across all enemies, inflicting typical damage of around 280-330 HP. Can only be used in battle.
