<a id="s11-4"></a>

## 11.4. Misc Skills

There are Assist and Hinder Skills here, most of which may come in handy

occasionally, and some very often. Two of the Hinder Skills require the use of a weapon, namely EARTH and MOONSHAD, so make sure that the relevant character is properly equipped if you are thinking of using one of these.

<!-- MIXED -->

| Assist |  | Hinder |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| BARRIER |  | BINDWA      MOONSHAD |  |
| BLESSING |  | EARTH         SHADOW |  |
| VISION |  | HIJAMMER    STASISBM |  |
| WAR CRY |  | ILLUSION      TELELE |  |
| WARLA |  | MINDBLST |  |

BARRIER  - Usable by Demi and Wren.

**Also usable by Siren386 and Browren486.**

The android projects an energy field that covers the party, reducing magical damage to all characters. Can only be used in battle.

BLESSING - Usable by Raja. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Raja calls the power of the saints to protect the party, increasing all characters' DFS in a similar manner to DEBAN. Can only be used in battle.

VISION - Usable by Hahn. ¯¯¯¯¯¯ Hahn concentrates on the enemies, studying their actions to understand their strategy. This increases Dexterity. Can only be used in battle.

WAR CRY - Usable by Gryz. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Gryz cries out loudly, fueling his strength with aggression and adrenaline. This increases Attack Power. Can only be used in battle.

WARLA - Usable by Kyra. ¯¯¯¯¯ Similar to DEBAN, Kyra sets up a wall of force that increases each character's Defence Power. Can only be used in battle.

BINDWA - Usable by Kyra. ¯¯¯¯¯¯ Kyra creates a network of energy strings that bind the enemies, possibly inflicting a Sleep-like status on all enemies. Can only be used in battle.

EARTH - Usable by Chaz. ¯¯¯¯¯ A mostly ineffective Skill, Chaz attempts to create a force that sticks the enemies to the ground, possibly inflicting Sleep. Can only be used in battle.

HIJAMMER - Usable by Wren. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Wren unleashes a targetted EMP that has a good chance of ceasing electrical functions and inflicting Sleep on machines. Can only be used in battle.

ILLUSION - Usable by Rika. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Rika projects a number of images of herself onto all enemies, possibly disorientating them and lowering their Agility. Can only be used in battle.

MINDBLST - Usable by Seth.

**Also usable by Dark Force (3), Illusionst and Imagiomage.**

Seth attempts to shut down each enemy's mental processes. If successful, the enemy is inflicted with Sleep. Can only be used in battle.

MOONSHAD - Usable by Alys. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Alys throws her weapon at an enemy in an attempt to blanket it in a sheet of darkness. If successful, this causes Sleep. Can only be used in battle.

SHADOW   - Usable by Seth.

**Also usable by ChaosSorcr and Dark Force (3). (SHADOWBIND)**

Seth creates shadowy images around each enemy in an effort to confuse them. There is a chance that this will lower Agility. Can only be used in battle.

STASISBM - Usable by Demi. ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Demi emanates a beam of numbing energy onto one enemy. It has a chance of inflicting Paralysis, but only affects organic life. Can only be used in battle.

TELELE - Usable by Kyra. ¯¯¯¯¯¯ A unique spell that causes fatigue in all enemies, possibly reducing their Attack Power. Can only be used in battle.
