<a id="s13-1"></a>

## 13.1. Expendables

Most expendable items are available from common Tool Stores, although a few are a little more difficult to come by. The majority of expendable items are curative, the others having unique purposes. They can be used in the field and/or in battle, and they are lost after use.

MONOMATE - 'A weak medicine that restores HP.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 20 MST Available at Piata, Mile, Zema, Krup, Tonoe, Nalya, Aiedo, Kadary, Monsen, Ryuon and Tyler Tool Stores. May be dropped by Ismounos.

A useful item early in the game, as it allows you to heal characters without using TP. It heals about 45 HP. Can be used anywhere. Only works on organic life.

DIMATE - 'A medicine that restores HP.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯ 160 MST Available at Aiedo, Kadary, Monsen, Ryuon, Tyler, Zosa and Meese Tool Stores. May be dropped by Zios Guard.

A more potent medicine that is valuable a little later in the game when enemies deal greater damage. It heals about 90 HP. Can be used anywhere. Only works on organic life.

TRIMATE - 'A strong medicine that restores HP.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 400 MST Available at Reshel, Jut, Uzo and Torinco Tool Stores. May be dropped by BloodSaber, FrostSaber and Radhin.

The best medicine, this item proves very important late in the game when facing very tough enemies. It heals about 300 HP. Can be used anywhere. Only works on organic life.

ANTIDOTE - 'A medicine that cures poison.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 10 MST Available at Mile, Zema, Krup, Tonoe, Nalya, Aiedo, Kadary, Monsen, Ryuon, Tyler, Zosa, Reshel, Meese, Jut, Uzo and Torinco Tool Stores. May be dropped by FlattrPlnt, Gicefalgue, Guilgenova and MonsterFly.

A very useful item throughout the game, but especially at the beginning before learning the ANTI Technique. It cures Poison. Can be used anywhere.

CURE-PARAL - 'A medicine that cures paralysis.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 120 MST Available at Zema, Tonoe, Aiedo, Kadary, Monsen, Ryuon, Tyler, Zosa, Reshel, Meese, Jut, Uzo and Torinco Tool Stores. May also be dropped by Toadstool and Shrieker.

Like ANTIDOTE, this item has a specific function, and is most useful before RIMPA is learned. It cures Paralysis. Can be used anywhere.

TELEPIPE - 'A magic item that can use 'RYUKA' power.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 130 MST Available at Zema, Krup, Tonoe, Aiedo, Kadary, Monsen, Ryuon, Tyler, Zosa, Reshel, Meese, Jut, Uzo and Torinco Tool Stores.

A great time-saving item, it teleports the party to any town or village on the same planet that they have visited before. Can only be used in the field, but not in a dungeon.

ESCAPIPE - 'A magic item that can use HINAS power.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 70 MST Available at Zema, Krup, Tonoe, Aiedo, Kadary, Monsen, Ryuon, Tyler, Zosa, Reshel, Meese, Jut, Uzo and Torinco Tool Stores.

This item teleports the party out of a dungeon, saving them if they are deep in hostile territory with low HP and TP. Can only be used in a dungeon.

SHORTCAKE - 'A cake that is sold in an Aiedo bakery.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 280 MST Available at Naura Cake Shop in Aiedo.

It seems highly expensive for a poor curative item, but it is essential for a Hunters' Guild job. It heals about 10 HP. Can be used anywhere. Only works on organic life.

REPAIR-KIT - 'A simple repair kit for androids.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S May be dropped by Browren486, Debugger, Servant and Slave. 5 MST Rare and very important, it is the only item that can cure Demi and Wren. It revives and restores HP to maximum. Can be used anywhere. Only works on androids.

MOON-DEW - 'A mysterious yellow perfume.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 5000 MST Available at Meese Perfume Store. May also be dropped by ChaosSorcr.

The most common of the perfumes, this item will be invaluable until REVER is learned. It revives and heals 1/4 maximum HP. Can be used anywhere. Only works on organic life.

STAR-DEW - 'A mysterious blue perfume.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 10000 MST Available at Meese Perfume Store. May also be dropped by Greneris and Illusionst.

Probably the most indispensable item in the later part of the game. It heals about 150 HP of all party members. Can be used anywhere. Only works on organic life.

SOL-DEW - 'A mysterious red perfume.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 20000 MST Available at Meese Perfume Store. May also be dropped by Imagiomage.

An enhanced version of MOON-DEW, it revives and heals all HP, and removes all status effects from the character. Can be used anywhere. Only works on organic life.

DYNAMITE - 'An highly explosive material.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S May be dropped by CommndBall, FloatMine and Tower. 160 MST The only offensive expendable item, it is only useful for a short while. It inflicts about 120 HP of damage to one enemy. Can only be used in battle.

PEROLYMATE - 'Simple cakes that have some nutritional value.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 40 MST Available at Termi's Bayamare Gift Store.

A fairly unique restorative item, it heals 1/4 of the maximum HP of a character. It is essential for a Hunters' Guild job. Can be used anywhere. Only works on organic life.

PENNANT - 'A pennant embroidered with the name Termi.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 600 MST Available at Termi's Bayamare Gift Store.

This souvenir can be used in Alys' house in Aiedo to attach it to the wall. Chaz will comment on it if examined. Can only be used in Alys' house in Aiedo. This item can be sold, but cannot be discarded.

WOODCARVIN - 'A sand worm doll made of wood.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 3000 MST Available at Termi's Bayamare Gift Store.

Like the PENNANT, this can be used in Alys' house in Aiedo to place it on the table. Chaz will comment on it if examined. Can only be used in Alys' house in Aiedo. This item can be sold, but cannot be discarded.

PENGU-FEED - 'Article that can summon the Dezolis Penguin.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 800 MST Available at Zosa Tool Store.

This highly unusual item is a very expensive ANTIDOTE. Using it on a Poisoned character will remove the Poison but the text will say HP has been increased (although it hasn't). This function of the PENGU-FEED can only be used inside Zosa Tool Store, as when the party try to leave, a Penguin runs across the front of the shop and steals the PENGU-FEED. This is unavoidable. Only buy this item if you want to witness this unique but ultimately pointless event. Can only be used in Zosa Tool Store. (Note: Teleporting doesn't work in the store)
