<a id="s13-2-3"></a>

### 13.2.3. Swords

Swords are made up of long, heavy blades attached to a hefty hilt, and are used for slicing enemies in one stroke. Swords are also useful for parrying enemy attacks. They are two-handed weapons, hence only one may be equipped at a time and no shield may be equipped with it.

Only Chaz can use swords.

ALIS-SWORD - 'A legendary sword used by a heroine of yore.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 500 MST Available at Termi's Bayamare Gift Store.

By far the weakest sword in the game, this item's only real use is in one of the Hunters' Guild jobs.

STEL-SWORD - 'A sword made of steel.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 280 MST Available at Mile, Zema, Tonoe and Aiedo Weapon Stores.

The first sword available, purchase and equip this to Chaz as soon as possible. It is much better than two HUNT-KNIFEs.

TITN-SWORD - 'A sword made of a titanium alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 560 MST Available at Tonoe and Aiedo Weapon Stores.

More than twice as powerful as the STEL-SWORD, you should find this weapon very useful early in the game.

CRMC-SWORD - 'A sword made of ceramic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 3600 MST Available at Aiedo Hunters' Guild and Tyler Weapon Stores.

A very effective sword when it becomes available, it should be exchanged for a LASR-SWORD when one is found.

SHADWBLADE - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S May be dropped by ShadowSabr. 1 MST Although more powerful than CRMC-SWORD, it seriously reduces DFS, MTL and DEX. It can sometimes add DIEM to attacks.

LASR-SWORD - 'A sword with a powerful laser emitting device.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Zio's Fort. 2700 MST Only one of its type in the game, it should be given to Chaz as soon as it's found. It is radiation-based.

PLSM-SWORD - 'A sword with a large built-in plasma unit.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Zelan. 4350 MST This radiation-based sword should be equipped to Chaz as soon as it has been found, as it's much stronger than LASR-SWORD.

FLAMESWORD - 'A sword that has the power of FLAELI magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 12900 MST Available at Zosa and Meese Weapon Stores.

This fire-based sword is effective against Dezolisian monsters but not Motavian monsters. It can also be used to cast Flaeli.

LACO-SWORD - 'A sword made of high grade Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 20400 MST Available at Jut Weapon Store.

A very strong radiation-based sword, this should be bought and equipped to Chaz until you go to Rykros.

GUARDSWORD - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Silence Temple. 12550 MST A highly powerful radiation-based weapon, equip this to Chaz as soon as you can, only removing it when ELSYDEON is found.

ELSYDEON   - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.'

**Awarded to Chaz in Sacred Sword Cave.**

The ultimate sword and strongest weapon in the game. It is a light-based weapon that can add HOLYWORD to attacks.
