<a id="s13-2-6"></a>

### 13.2.6. Axes

Axes are made up of wide, sharp head attached to a long shaft. They can inflict heavy blows upon enemies, and are effective at using defensively. They are two-handed weapons, hence only one may be equipped at a time and no shield may be equipped with it.

Only Gryz can use axes.

TITN-AXE - 'An axe made of a titanium alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 640 MST Gryz begins with this weapon. Available at Aiedo Weapon Store.

The weakest axe, but generally a strong weapon. Replace this with BROAD-AXE as soon as you can.

BROAD-AXE - 'A large axe made of a titanium alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 1000 MST Available at Zema and Aiedo Weapon Stores.

A more powerful axe than the TITN-AXE. Buy it and equip it, but you won't be using this weapon for very long.

STRUGGL-AX - 'A large and heavy axe made for use in battles.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 4600 MST Available at Aiedo Hunters' Guild Weapon Store.

A strong weapon that will come in handy until you acquire the Land Rover. Keep it equipped until you acquire the LASR-AXE.

LASR-AXE - 'An axe with an internal laser emitting device.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Plate System. 3200 MST Equip this when you find it, as it is the best weapon for Gryz until he leaves the party. It is a radiation-based axe.

LACO-AXE - 'An axe made of high grade Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Gryz returns with this weapon. 13000 MST Far more powerful than the LASR-AXE, this radiation-based weapon will be very useful in the later part of the game.

DEFEAT-AXE - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S May be dropped by ChaosBrngr. 3 MST The best axe in the game. If you find one, equip it to Gryz immediately and keep it there. It can add BINDWA to attacks.
