<a id="s13-2-8"></a>

### 13.2.8. Guns

Remnants of an ancient culture, guns are powerful weapons that fire some form of ammunition upon enemies. They are two-handed weapons, hence only one may be equipped at a time. Some guns hit all enemies on the screen.

Both Demi and Wren can use guns.

IMPACTER - 'A gun that shoots compact bursts of air.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Demi begins with this weapon. 1500 MST The weakest of the guns. Keep it until you can lay your hands on the STUN-SHOT.

PULSE-LASR - 'A gun that fires quick-short laser pulses.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Zelan. (Only usable by Wren) 3200 MST Although weaker than the PLSM-RIFLE, this weapon should be given to Wren as it is radiation-based and hits all enemies.

STUN-SHOT - 'A gun that emits a high freqency sound wave.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Plate System. 1600 MST A more powerful gun for Demi. Equip this weapon upon finding it. It can sometimes add the BINDWA Skill to attacks.

PULSEVULCN - 'A weapon that fires electronic beams.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Climate Control Centre. (Only usable by Wren) 3600 MST Stronger than the PULSELASER, you should equip this radiation- based gun to Wren when you acquire it. It can hit all enemies.

WAVE-SHOT - 'A weapon that emits destructive sound waves.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Nurvus. 2000 MST Demi's most powerful weapon until she leaves the party, you won't have this weapon equipped for long.

PLSM-RIFLE - 'A portable particle gun that emits proton beams.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Wren begins with this weapon. (Only usable by Wren) 2800 MST A strong weapon for Wren's first, this radiation-based gun should be replaced immediately after the fight on the shuttle.

NAPALMSHOT - 'An incendiary bomb launcher.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Kuran. (Only usable by Wren) 3200 MST Only a little stronger than the PLSM-RIFLE, but very effective against cold monsters (fire-based). Equip it when on Dezolis.

PLSMLAUNCH - 'A large particle gun.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Weapons Plant. (Only usable by Wren) 4300 MST Far more powerful than the NAPALMSHOT, equip this gun to Wren when it is found. It is a radiation-based weapon.

SONICBUSTR - 'A gun that bursts target with ultra sound waves.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Demi returns with this weapon. 5600 MST May also be dropped by Dominator.

Demi's best weapon in the game. A very powerful gun that you should keep equipped until the end.

PHOTNERASR - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Vahal Fort. (Only usable by Wren) 6400 MST Wren's best and most powerful gun. It is radiation-based, but not as useful as the PULSEVULCN against multiple enemies.
