<a id="s13-2-7"></a>

### 13.2.7. Claws

Claws are sets of long, sharp spikes, worn on the hands as gloves. They allow swift and accurate attacks. They are one-handed weapons, and so one can be equipped with a shield, or two can be equipped at the same time. In the latter case, the claws' attack bonuses are cumulative.

Only Rika can use claws.

CLAW - 'A set of hooked claws, made of a titanium alloy' ¯¯¯¯ 1000 MST Rika begins with this weapon. Also available at Aiedo Weapon Store.

The weakest of the claws. Replace them with SABER-CLAWs straight away.

SABER-CLAW - 'A sharper claw-weapon, made of a titan alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 1700 MST Available at Aiedo Hunters' Guild Weapon Store.

Stronger than a CLAW, this weapon will suit Rika until it can be replaced with a LASR-CLAW.

LASR-CLAW - 'A claw with an internal laser emitting device.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S May be dropped by Blauzen. 1250 MST A good, fast claw that should be equipped when found, and kept until a PLSM-CLAW is found. It is a radiation-based weapon.

PLSM-CLAW - 'A claw with a built-in plasma production unit.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S May be dropped by Silvalt. 1950 MST Similar to but better than the LASR-CLAW, this radiation-based weapon will be invaluable to Rika for a long while.

THUNDRCLAW - 'A claw that has the power of TANDLE magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 8500 MST Available at Zosa and Meese Weapon Stores.

An electric-based claw that is effective against machines. May be used in battle as a single-target TANDLE effect.

SILVR-TUSK - 'A secret treasure of the musk cats.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Given by the Musk Cat Chief in Mysterious Valley. 3150 MST Not the strongest claw, but it is Rika's ultimate weapon due to it being light-based and effective against the Darkness.

LACO-CLAW - 'A claw made of high grade Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 10200 MST Available at Jut Weapon Store.

A very strong weapon, buy one of these and equip it to Rika alongside her SILVR-TUSK. It is a radiation-based claw.

GENOCYCLAW - 'A claw that has a power of 'DIEM' magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S May be dropped by King Saber. 4300 MST A powerful claw that should be equipped with the SILVR-TUSK if you find one. It may add the DIEM Skill to an attack.

GUARD-CLAW - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Strength Tower. 6600 MST The strongest claw in the game, this radiation-based weapon should be paired with the SILVR-TUSK at the end of the game.
