<a id="s13-2-5"></a>

### 13.2.5. Rods

Rods are long poles crafted of a hard material, and are designed solely to pummel enemies. Some are also noted to grant increased mental prowess or even contain magical spells. They are two-handed weapons, hence only one may be equipped at a time and no shield may be equipped with it.

Both Rune and Raja can use rods.

WOOD-CANE - 'A cane made from the wood of a Laerumatree.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Rune begins with this weapon. 70 MST May also be dropped by Tech User.

The weakest of rods, it is not effective as an attacking weapon. It can be used in battle as the RES Technique.

PSYCO-WAND - 'A weapon that can nullify various magical-dfs.'

**Obtained at the top of the Ladea Tower.**

Although not powerful, this light-based weapon is very useful against the Darkness. It can be used as the CANCELING Skill.

SILV-ROD - 'A rod made of low purity Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 2700 MST Available at Ryuon and Tyler Weapon Stores.

Stronger than the PSYCO-WAND in ATK terms, but nowhere near as useful and effective. Keep the PSYCO-WAND.

DREAM-ROD - 'A rod that has the power of BINDWA magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 5400 MST Available at Zosa and Meese Weapon Stores.

The only rod to give a DFS bonus. It may add BINDWA to an attack, and it can be used in battle as the BINDWA Skill.

FORCE-CANE - 'A cane that has been strengthened by magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 2500 MST Available at Ryuon Weapon Store. May also be dropped by TechMaster.

Like SILV-ROD, the higher ATK power of this weapon is not enough to merit equipping it. The PSYCO-WAND is more useful.

LACO-ROD - 'Rod made of hi-Laconia. Has a power of'EFESS'.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Raja returns with this weapon. 6800 MST May be dropped by Dark Witch.

Equip this radiation-based weapon if you acquire it, only replacing it with the GUARD-ROD. It can be used as EFESS.

GUARD-ROD - 'Nothing is known about this item.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Strength Tower. 7250 MST The strongest of all rods, this radiation-based weapon should be replaced by PSYCO-WAND at the end. It can be used as SAR.
