<a id="s13-2-4"></a>

### 13.2.4. Slashers

Slashers are curved weapons with a sharp outer edge. They are thrown at enemies before returning to the wielder. They are one-handed weapons, and so one can be equipped with a shield, or two can be equipped at the same time. In the latter case, the slashers' attack bonuses are cumulative. Slashers hit all enemies on the screen in one attack.

Both Alys and Kyra can use slashers.

BOOMERANG - 'A thrown weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 80 MST Alys begins with this weapon. Also available at Mile and Aiedo Weapon Stores.

Although very useful at the beginning of the game for its hit- all ability, this weapon is the weakest slasher in the game.

SLASHER - 'A blade weapon that is thrown.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 160 MST Available at Mile, Zema, Tonoe and Aiedo Weapon Stores.

More powerful than the BOOMERANG, Alys should be equipped with two of these as soon as you can buy them.

TITNSLASHR - 'A slasher made of a titanium alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 360 MST Available at Tonoe and Aiedo Weapon Stores.

A good, strong slasher, this weapon will be Alys' weapon of choice until you acquire the LASRSLASHR.

LASRSLASHR - 'A slasher with a built-in laser emitting device.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Kadary. 1050 MST Alys' most powerful weapon, When found it should replace one of her TITNSLASHRs. This is a radiation-based slasher.

LACOSLASHR - 'A slicer made of high grade Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 21600 MST Kyra begins with this weapon. Available at Jut Weapon Store.

A very powerful radiation-based weapon, try to get two of these for Kyra, replacing them only with MOONSLASHRs.

MOONSLASHR - 'A slicer that contains light from the moon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S May be dropped by Dark Rider. 8400 MST The strongest slasher in the game should be equipped to Kyra when found. It can be used in battle as the MOONSHADE Skill.
