<a id="s13-3"></a>

## 13.3. Shields

As well as weapons, some characters may be able to carry certain types of shield. A shield uses up one hand, and therefore cannot be equipped with a two-handed weapon. They are useful for increasing the Defence Power of a character, but come at the cost of Attack Power. Most of the time, the best defence is a good offence, so carrying two weapons or a two-handed weapon is usually more beneficial than one weapon and a shield or two shields. There are occasions, however, especially with characters that rely on their mental power rather than their physical strength, when equipping a shield or two may be the better option.

This section gives a list of each shield in order of DFS bonus. The symbols following the shield names indicate which characters can use the shield:

**Ch:** Chaz, Al:Alys, Ha:Hahn, Ru:Rune, Gr:Gryz, · **Ri:** Rika, Ra:Raja, Ky:Kyra, Se:Seth

As you can see, androids may not use shields.

<!-- MIXED -->

| Shield | Usable by | DFS | MTL | STR | Price |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| LTHRSHIELD | Ch,Al,Ha,Ru,Gr,Ri,Ra,Ky,Se | +2 |  |  | 140 MST |  |
| CRBNSHIELD | Ch,Al,Ha,Ru,Gr,Ri,Ra,Ky,Se | +5 |  |  | 220 MST |  |
| TITNSHIELD | Ch,Al,Gr,Ri | +7 |  |  | 600 MST |  |
| GRPTSHIELD | Ch,Al,Ha,Ru,Gr,Ri,Ra,Ky,Se | +11 |  |  | 900 MST |  |
| CRMCSHIELD | Ch,Al,Gr,Ri | +15 |  |  | 2300 MST |  |
| LASRBARRIR | Ch,Al,Ha,Ru,Gr,Ri,Ra,Ky,Se | +18 |  |  | S  1350 MST |  |
| PSY-SHIELD | Ch,Ha,Ru,Gr,Ri,Ra,Ky,Se | +21 | +1 |  | 4600 MST |  |
| PLSM-FIELD | Ch,Ha,Gr,Ri,Ky,Se | +22 |  |  | S  2750 MST |  |
| RFLCSHIELD | Ch,Ha,Gr,Ri,Ky,Se | +23 |  |  | 15600 MST |  |
| POW-SHIELD | Ch,Gr,Ri | +24 |  | +10 | S  6000 MST |  |
| SILVSHIELD | Ch,Ha,Ru,Gr,Ri,Ra,Ky,Se | +25 |  |  | 7200 MST |  |
| MAHLAYSHLD | Ha | +28 |  |  | S 12000 MST |  |
| LACOSHIELD | Ch,Gr,Ri | +29 |  |  | 20400 MST |  |
| GUARDSHILD | Ch,Gr,Ri | +30 |  |  | S 14400 MST |  |

LTHRSHIELD - 'A shield made of sand worm skin.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 140 MST Hahn begins with this shield. Also available at Mile and Aiedo Armour Stores.

This is the weakest shield, and should be removed from Hahn permanently once you can buy some new equipment.

CRBNSHIELD - 'A shield made of carbon fibers on a steel frame.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 220 MST Available at Zema, Krup, Tonoe and Aiedo Armour Stores.

There is no reason to equip this shield at all, as all of the party members benefit more from weapons than shields.

TITNSHIELD - 'A shield made of a titanium alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 600 MST Available at Tonoe and Aiedo Armour Stores.

Like the CRBNSHIELD, this shield is fairly redundant, as weapons are more useful when it becomes available.

GRPTSHIELD - 'A shield made of special graphite fibers.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 900 MST Available at Zema and Aiedo Hunters' Guild Armour Stores.

You may choose to equip one or two of these to Hahn and Rune, relying on their mental abilities over their weapons.

CRMCSHIELD - 'A shield made of ceramic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 2300 MST Available at Aiedo Hunters' Guild Armour Store.

This shield has a unique ability, in that it adds the fire element to an equipped weapon. Very useful on Dezolis.

LASRBARRIR - 'A shield constructed of laser rays.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Plate System and Zio's Fort. 1350 MST If you equipped the GRPTSHIELD to anyone, it would be best to replace it with the LASRBARRIR when this is found.

PSY-SHIELD - 'A steel shield imbued with defensive magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 4600 MST Available at Termi Armour Store.

This shield is unique in that it is the only one to provide a MTL bonus. Replace it with the PLSM-FIELD when possible.

PLSM-FIELD - 'A shield that is made from plasma.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Zelan. 2750 MST There is little point equipping this shield at all, as the characters that can use it are more valuable with weapons.

RFLCSHIELD - 'A shield with hi-resist to techniques and magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 15600 MST Kyra and Seth begin with this shield. Also available at Meese and Jut Armour Stores.

This shield provides resistance to magical attacks, but this decreases as the wearer's MTL score increases.

POW-SHIELD - 'Nothing is know about this item.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Garuberk Tower. 6000 MST A unique shield, it adds a considerable bonus to the user's Strength. It can also be used as the SHIFT Technique.

SILVSHIELD - 'A shield made of low purity Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 7200 MST Available at Tyler Weapon Store.

A very useful shield, as it is the most powerful one that the spellcasters can use. Equip two of these to the magic-users.

MAHLAYSHLD - 'Shield that Hahn created with his his father.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Hahn returns with this shield. 12000 MST One of Hahn's homemade items, this shield should be paired with a SILVSHIELD. It can be used as a single-target DEBAN.

LACOSHIELD - 'A shield made of high grade Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 20400 MST Available at Reshel Armour Store.

If you wish to have one of the stronger characters take a more defensive position, equip this shield as soon as possible.

GUARDSHILD - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Silence Temple. 14400 MST The strongest shield in the game, it should only be equipped to a character if you intend to rely more on their Techniques.
