<a id="s13-4-3"></a>

### 13.4.3. Helms

Helms are domed objects constructed of a tough material, that are worn on the head. They are the most durable of the head protection worn by humans, but their heaviness only makes them usable by the stronger male characters.

Both Chaz and Gryz can wear helms.

LTHR-HELM - 'A hat made of sand worm skin boiled in wax.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 80 MST Chaz begins with this head protection. Also available at Mile and Aiedo Armour Stores.

This weak helmet should only be worn until a CRBN-HELM can be acquired, as it is a very poor defense.

CRBN-HELM - 'A helmet made of a carbon-based fiber.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 200 MST Available at Krup and Aiedo Armour Stores.

Although better than the LTHR-HELM, this helmet will only be of use until the party reach Tonoe.

TITN-HELM - 'A helmet made of a titanium alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 570 MST Gryz begins with this head protection. Also available at Tonoe and Aiedo Armour Stores.

Buy one of these for Chaz as soon as possible, only replacing it when you can get hold of a CRMC-HELM.

CRMC-HELM - 'A helmet made of ceramic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 1800 MST Available at Aiedo Hunters' Guild Armour Store.

A very effective helmet for quite a while, this should be kept until the party arrive on Dezolis.

SILV-HELM - 'A helmet made of low purity Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 3800 MST Available at Tyler Armour Store.

Replace the CRMC-HELM with one of these as soon as you can, as it will be of great value until the Air Castle quest.

SWIFT-HELM - 'Helmet that increases the wearers reactions.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Air Castle. 4000 MST This unique helmet increases the wearer's AGL by a few points, and can also be used as a single-target SANER Technique.

LACO-HELM - 'A helmet made of high grade Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 13800 MST Gryz returns with this head protection. Also available at Reshel Armour Store.

The best helmet, Gryz should keep it equipped, but Chaz should replace it with the ALGO-RING as soon as it is procured.
