<a id="s13-4-4"></a>

### 13.4.4. Crowns

Crowns are the favoured head protection of female humans, as they are lighter than helms and provide almost as strong a defence. They are bands of tough material that are worn in the same manner as helms.

Alys, Rika and Kyra can wear crowns.

LTHR-CROWN - 'A woman's helmet made of sand worm skin.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 90 MST Alys begins with this head protection. Also available at Mile and Aiedo Armour Stores.

This crown is the weakest of its kind, and should be replaced by a tougher CRBN-CROWN as soon as possible.

CRBN-CROWN - 'A woman's helmet made of a carbon-based fiber.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 150 MST Available at Krup and Aiedo Armour Stores.

Keep this helmet on Alys' head until the TITN-CROWN is found, at which point make the usual exchange.

TITN-CROWN - 'A woman's helmet made of a titanium alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 490 MST Available at Aiedo Armour Store.

Part of the titanium collection, this crown should only be replaced when the GRPT-CROWN becomes available.

GRPT-CROWN - 'A woman's helmet made of sand worm skin.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 1000 MST Rika begins with this head protection. Also available at Aiedo Hunters' Guild Armour Store.

This useful crown should replace the TITN-CROWN as soon as possible, and should be kept until the party reach Termi.

PSY-CROWN - 'A steel helmet imbued with defensive magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 2800 MST Available at Termi Armour Store.

This is the only crown to give a MTL bonus, and should be worn until the party touchdown on Dezolis.

SILV-CROWN - 'A woman's helmet made of low purity Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 5000 MST Kyra begins with this head protection. Also available at Tyler Armour Store.

A very useful crown for the majority of the Dezolis excursion, this should only be replaced by a LACO-CROWN.

LACO-CROWN - 'A woman's helmet made of high grade Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 15000 MST Kyra returns with this head protection. Also available at Reshel Armour Store.

This is the strongest crown, and should only be replaced when Rika has access to the MOTA-RING.

Gear are tough coverings that are attached to an android's head to provide protection in the same way as helmets. They are generally slightly tougher than helms, as an android's stronger physique allows for the gear's thicker construction.

Both Demi and Wren can wear gear.

HEAD-GEAR - 'A helmet for androids made of steel.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Demi begins with this head protection. 800 MST The weakest of all the android gear, this steel head defence should only be worn until the TITN-GEAR is obtained.

TITN-GEAR - 'A helmet for androids made of a titan alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Plate System. 1000 MST Demi should equip this as soon as possible, and should not replace it until she leaves the party.

CRMC-GEAR - 'A helmet for androids made of ceramic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Wren begins with this head protection. 1500 MST This gear should be replaced by the ZIRC-GEAR as soon as Wren can get hold of it.

ZIRC-GEAR - 'Headgear for androids made of anti-heat-metal.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Hanger. 1800 MST Exchange this the CRMC-GEAR as soon as it is found, as it will provide excellent protection for quite a while.

COMPO-GEAR - 'Compound headgear of ceramic and titan.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Climate Control Centre. 2100 MST This next headgear upgrade should replace the ZIRC-GEAR, and should be worn until the next gear is acquired.

ELST-GEAR - 'A headgear for androids that has hi-elasticity.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Weapons Plant. 2500 MST This gear is highly elastic, and reduces shock on the head. It should only be replaced when the LACO-GEAR is procured.

LACO-GEAR - 'A headgear for androids made of hi-Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Demi returns with this head protection. 2800 MST The strongest of all the android gear, this defensive item should only be replaced when Wren obtains the PALMA-RING.

Similar to bands, rings are strips of material that are placed over the head to protect it. Most of the rings are part of the set known as the Rings of the Stars, but there is another ring that is available at the end of the game. They are the strongest of all the head protection.

Each ring can only be usable by a specific character.

MAHLAYRING - 'A ring that Hahn created with his father.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Hahn returns with this head protection. (Only usable by Hahn) 8000 MST Part of Hahn's special equipment upon his return, this head protection should be kept until the end.

MOTA-RING  - 'Nothing is known about this item.'

**Awarded in Strength Tower. (Only usable by Rika)**

One of the Rings of the Stars, this should be equipped to Rika as soon as it is acquired, and kept there until the end.

DEZO-RING  - 'Nothing is known about this item.'

**Awarded in Strength Tower. (Only usable by Rune)**

One of the Rings of the Stars, this should be equipped to Rune as soon as it is acquired, and kept there until the end.

ALGO-RING  - 'Nothing is known about this item.'

**Awarded in Courage Tower. (Only usable by Chaz)**

One of the Rings of the Stars, this should be equipped to Chaz as soon as it is acquired, and kept there until the end.

PALMA-RING - 'Nothing is known about this item.'

**Awarded in Strength Tower. (Only usable by Wren)**

One of the Rings of the Stars, this should be equipped to Wren as soon as it is acquired, and kept there until the end.
