<a id="s13-4-2"></a>

### 13.4.2. Bands

Bands are made of small protective patches that cover the forehead, held in place by a strip of material that wraps around the head. They are generally the weakest of the different types of head protection, and are worn by characters who rely most upon their mental powers.

Hahn, Rune, Raja and Seth can wear bands.

LTHR-BAND - 'A forehead patch made of sand worm skin.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 70 MST Hahn begins with this head protection. Also available at Mile and Aiedo Armour Stores.

This poor defence should be replaced by a CIRCLET as soon as possible, and should not be worn again.

CIRCLET - 'A forehead patch made of a carbon-based fiber.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 100 MST Rune begins with this head protection. Also available at Zema, Krup, Tonoe and Aiedo Armour Stores.

The most useful band until the Land Rover is acquired, this should be equipped to both Hahn and Rune when possible.

PSY-CIRCLT - 'A steel forehead patch imbued with dfs-magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 1200 MST Available at Termi Armour Store.

This band should replace the standard CIRCLET as soon as it becomes available, as it increases the wearer's MTL score.

SILVCIRCLT - 'A circlet made of low purity Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 3000 MST Raja begins with this head protection. Also available at Ryuon and Tyler Armour Stores.

Although it does not provide as high a MTL bonus, replace the PSY-CIRCLT with this band when the party arrive on Dezolis.

LACOCIRCLT - 'A forehead patch made of high grade Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 9600 MST Seth begins and Raja returns with this head protection. Also available at Reshel Armour Store.

This is the toughest band in the game, and should only be replaced by the DEZO-RING when Rune acquires it.
