<a id="s13-5-4"></a>

### 13.5.4. Robes

Robes are thin sheets of fabric that wrap around the wearer to protect them from harm. They are naturally defensively poor, so are often strengthened by magic to increase their protection.

Rune, Raja and Kyra can wear robes.

WHITEMANTL - 'A mantle that is imbued with defensive magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Rune begins with this body protection. 200 MST The weakest robe in the game is only useful while Rune joins the party temporarily, before leaving again in Tonoe.

PSY-ROBE - 'A magician's robe imbued with defensive magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Rune returns with this body protection. 1500 MST A stronger robe than the WHITEMANTL, it gives a high MTL bonus and should be replaced when the FRADEMANTL is acquired.

FRADEMANTL - 'Nothing is known about this item.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Ladea Tower. 2000 MST This robe is very useful until the party arrive on Dezolis, where it should be exchanged for a SILV-ROBE.

SILV-MANTL - 'A mantle woven from low purity Laconia fibers.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 7300 MST Raja begins with this body protection. Also available from Ryuon Armour Store and Tyler Weapon Store.

This robe should replace the FRADEMANTL as soon as possible, as it will be of more use during the Kuran expedition.

PHANTAROBE - 'A robe that creates an illusion of the wearer.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 8400 MST Available from Zosa Armour Store.

Replace the SILV-MANTL with this robe, as it has the unique property of increasing the wearer's Agility.

RFLC-ROBE - 'A robe with hi-resist to techniques and magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 18400 MST Kyra begins and Raja returns with this body protection. Also available from Meese and Jut Armour Stores.

This robe will come in handy for a considerable period, and should only be replaced with a GUARD-ROBE.

GUARD-ROBE - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Courage Tower. 14100 MST The most powerful robe is one-of-a-kind, and should be given to the character who will benefit most from it.
