<a id="s13-5-2"></a>

### 13.5.2. Suits

Suits are simple tunics woven from special fabrics. They are lightweight and easy to wear, but do not provide a great deal of defence. As such, stronger characters prefer heavier mails to weak suits.

Chaz, Alys, Hahn, Gryz, Rika, Kyra and Seth can wear most suits, although there are a couple of exceptions.

LTHR-CLOTH - 'Leather armor made of tanned sand worm skins.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 160 MST Chaz, Alys and Hahn begin with this body protection. Also available at Aiedo Armour Store.

The weakest armour in the game, it should be replaced with a CRBN-SUIT as soon as they are available.

CRBN-SUIT - 'Protective garb made of special carbon fibers.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 550 MST Available at Zema, Krup, Tonoe and Aiedo Armour Stores.

A useful suit early in the game, this should be replaced by a better suit or some mail as soon as possible.

GRPT-SUIT - 'Protective garb made of special graphite fibers.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 1200 MST Rika begins with this body protection. Also available at Zema and Aiedo Hunters' Guild Armour Stores.

This suit should be equipped to Hahn until he leaves, but should be removed from Rika in favour of CRMC-MAIL.

CYBER-SUIT - 'A reinforced suit that enhances strength.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Seth begins with this body protection. 15000 MST A wholly unique suit that can only be acquired from Seth, it increases the wearer's Strength by a considerable amount.

MAHLAYMAIL - 'Armor that Hahn created with his father.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Hahn returns with this body protection. (Only usable by Hahn) 24600 MST The best suit in the game, Hahn should keep this equipped until the very end.
