<a id="s13-5-3"></a>

### 13.5.3. Mails

Far heavier than suits, these body coverings are usually wrought of metal or some other durable substance. They are very heavy, and only a few characters can wear them comfortably, but they are a very good defence.

Chaz, Alys, Gryz and Rika can wear mails.

TITN-MAIL - 'Armor made of a titanium alloy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 1120 MST Gryz begins with this body protection. Also available at Tonoe and Aiedo Armour Stores.

Although far stronger than the earlier suits, this is the weakest mail, and should be replaced as soon as possible.

CRMC-MAIL - 'Armor made of ceramic, anti-heat,but heavy.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 3700 MST Available at Aiedo Hunters' Guild Armour Store.

A very useful mail until the party reach Termi, this should replace the TITN-MAIL as it becomes available.

PSY-MAIL - 'Steel armor imbued with defensive magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 7400 MST Available at Termi Armour Store.

The only mail to grant a MTL bonus, this should be acquired and equipped as soon as the party reach Termi.

SILV-MAIL - 'Armor made of low purity Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 13200 MST Available at Tyler Weapon Store.

This Dezolisian mail should replace the PSY-MAIL as soon as possible, and should be kept until the Ice Digger is acquired.

RFLC-MAIL - 'Armor with a high resist to techniques and magic.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 26800 MST Available at Meese and Jut Armour Stores.

A very useful mail for a considerable time, as it reduces

magical damage. It should be equipped as soon as possible.

LACO-MAIL - 'An armor made of high grade Laconia.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ 43800 MST Gryz returns with this body protection. Also available at Reshel Armour Store.

The strongest mail that can be bought, it should only be replaced by a GUARD-MAIL when acquired.

GUARD-MAIL - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ S Found in Anger Tower and Courage Tower. 28200 MST The toughest of all the mails, this body protection should be equipped until the end of the game.
