<a id="s13-7"></a>

## 13.7. Special

This section contains all the items that cannot be used or equipped from any menu, but may have some other purpose. None of these items can be bought or sold, and they are all essential to the story. They will either be lost after they have fulfilled their purpose, or will remain in the inventory until the end of the game.

ALSHLINE - 'Medicine that turned stone back to flesh.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Acquired in Warehouse Basement.

If the party enter Zema while carrying ALSHLINE, the villagers will return from stone statues to their normal state. The ALSHLINE is lost after this event has taken place.

CONTROLKEY - 'The system start up key for the Machine Center.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Acquired in Machine Centre.

The CONTROLKEY is an entirely pointless item that must be acquired in order to get the Land Rover. It is lost after the Land Rover is obtained.

CANCELLER - 'All-purpose sensor with stealth capabilities.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Acquired on Zelan.

The artificial satellite Kuran is originally in Stealth Mode, meaning it is undetectable to radar. Returning to the Landale while having the CANCELLER in your possession causes Kuran to become visible. The CANCELLER is lost after defeating Dark Force on Kuran.

ECLPSTORCH - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Acquired in Air Castle Basement.

When the party approaches the Carnivorous Trees while carrying the ECLPSTORCH, the forest is burned to ashes. The ECLPSTORCH will stay in the inventory until the party return to Gumbious Temple, where it will be given back to the Dezolisians. This item can be used in battle as the ST. FIRE Skill, but as it is neither expendable nor equipment, the ECLPSTORCH cannot be categorized as anything but special.

AERO-PRISM - 'Nothing is known about this weapon.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Acquired in Soldiers' Temple.

The AERO-PRISM generates a powerful beam of light that points directly at Rykros, after being taken out of Soldiers' Temple. It also removes Rykros' veil of invisibility once the party are close enough. It stays in the inventory until the end.

RYKR-RING - 'Nothing is known about this item.' ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Acquired in Courage Tower.

One of the Rings of the Stars, the RYKR-RING is not included in the Head Protection section above because it can't be worn. It is essential, however, to prove to Le Roof that his trials have been completed. It stays in the inventory until the end.

The PSYCO-WAND, PALMA-RING, MOTA-RING, DEZO-RING, ALGO-RING and ELSYDEON are also special, essential items, but they are covered in the relevant equipment sections above.
