<a id="s3-2-1"></a>

### 3.2.1. On Foot

Most battles take place while you are walking. Nearly all battles occur randomly, while walking around outside or in a dungeon. There are also boss battles, that occur when a specific location is reached. These are unavoidable and inescapable. When combat begins, the screen will split horizontally and combat music will begin. Along the bottom of the screen will be the characters in your party, facing your enemy near the middle of the screen. Along the top will be the name(s) of the opponent(s), and there will be a small menu on the left of the screen. This is where you choose your actions for the following round of combat. The options are described below:

COMD - This allows you to select the individual actions of each member of your party. The first character in the marching order will be shown alongside a pictoral menu of up to five options. These represent the different actions the character may take, and are described below:

Attack - Use equipped weapon to hit one or all enemies. (Sword) You must select a target if necessary.

Technique - Choose a technique from the list. Those marked (Blue sparkles) in red are unavailable due to lack of TP. You must select a target if necessary.

Skill - Choose a skill from the list. Those marked in (Red light) red have been exhausted, and cannot be used. You must select a target if necessary.

Item - Choose an item from the list. Those marked in (Chest) red have already been selected by someone else. You must select a target if necessary.

Defend - Take a defensive stance, to reduce damage from (Shield) attacks. Only uasble on self.

MACR - Another menu will open listing the letters A-H. These represent battle macros, that can be set in the Party Menu. The purpose of macros is to allow you to program in commands for each character beforehand, so that you don't have to select them individually from the COMD option. See the MACRO section in the Party Menu for more details on macros.

RUN - Discretion is the better part of valour. If all seems lost, or if you feel you are facing an opponent that is beyond your power to defeat, this option is here to allow the party to attempt escape. One of two things will happen if you select RUN. Either a message will say '[First character in marching order] retreated!', and you will return to the field (with no reward for any monsters you had defeated). Otherwise, a message will say 'Cannot escape!', and your enemy will get a free attack against you. Nearly all boss battles can never be left, so don't even try.

After you have chosen your battle strategy, the round of combat will take place, with each participant acting in an order based on their Agility and an element of randomness. If a macro has been chosen, the characters will act in the order of the macro, with the enemies acting accordingly. You may find that enemies act earlier when using macros, as slower characters may be programmed to act sooner in the round. The battle continues until the party escapes or one side defeats the other. If all of the enemies are defeated, the battle is won, and the party will be awarded experience points and mesetas (and perhaps an item). If all of the characters are reduced to 0 HP or are Paralyzed, the battle is lost and the game is over. You can reload again from a saved game.
