<a id="s6-2-10"></a>

### 6.2.10. Dearly Departed

**Starting Party:** Chaz , Gryz , Rika , Demi , Rune · **Starting Level:** 17-18, 17-18, 17-18, 14-15, 20

The party enter Alys' room at the Inn, and Hahn informs Chaz that Alys' condition has worsened. A cut-scene then begins.

Alys doesn't look too good. Chaz implores Rune to help her, but he cannot. Rune explains that the 'Black Energy Wave' contains an evil power created by something more than just Zio, and that it is beyond his powers to cure. Alys tries to speak, asking Rune to take care of Chaz, and then tells Chaz to come closer so that she may take one last look at him. Alys tells him that from now on he must carve his own destiny, and with her dying breath Alys thanks Chaz. Rika begins to cry. A short while later, a funeral is held for Alys, attended by her friends.

That evening, Chaz is looking up at the stars alone, when Rune comes out to talk to him. Chaz explains that, before he met Alys, he was living in a far off country where he did some pretty bad things. When he became a hunter, he was finally able to earn some money and live a good life. With Alys gone, Chaz doesn't know what to do. He wants to avenge her death, but he wouldn't understand why he was fighting anymore. Rune chastises Chaz, asking if Chaz really thinks that Alys was only fighting for money. He tells Chaz to think about it, then Rune returns indoors.

Rika comes outside to see Chaz, and tells him how glad she has been since leaving the Bio-Plant. She learned a lot from Seed, but explains there's a big difference between studying and experiencing. Chaz understands, and puts his arm around Rika as they both look up at the stars.

The next day, Hahn tells the others that he is going to return to the Academy and try to convince them to come up with a plan of action. Chaz agrees and wishes him luck, then Hahn leaves. The rest of the party decide to get going too.

Now that you can control the party again, your next destination is Nurvus. Since you haven't had the chance yet, equip your new PSYCO-WAND to Rune. You are already fully healed from your journey through Ladea Tower, so teleport to Kadary. Chaz, Gryz and Rika should all be at least Level 18, and Demi should be at least Level 15 by now. Rune may also have reached Level 21. If not, try to get the characters up to these Levels before heading into the next dungeon.

When you are fully prepared, save and enter Zio's Fort. Examine the barrier just up from the entrance, and Rune will approach it. Using the Psycho-wand, Rune breaks the seal, and Demi tells the group that below them is Nurvus, the central control system. Chaz asks if Zio is down there, and

Rune reminds him that their first priority is shutting down Nurvus. When you regain control, head up and descend the staircase.
