<a id="s6-5-6"></a>

### 6.5.6. Genesis of Algo

**Starting Party:** Wren , Chaz , Rika , Rune · **Starting Level:** 42-43, 45-46, 48-49, 41-42

The party will automatically walk up onto the Regen Platform as before. The temple will fade into the starry background again, and Le Roof will appear. He will congratulate the Protectors on having completed the missions well, and adds that he can now enlighten them with the secret of Algo's genesis.

It begins billions of years ago, when a spiritual life form split into two lesser beings, who eventually began to fight. After a long and terrible battle, there emerged a victor. The winner banished the enemy spritual life form to another dimension. Le Roof adds that they call the victorious side The Great Light, and the defeated one The Profound Darkness. However, The Great Light feared The Profound Darkness' return, and placed a seal over the dimensional portal, consisting of three planets orbitting a fixed star. This seal has become known as the Algo solar system.

Le Roof continues that The Great Light distributed Protectors between the three tribes of Algo - the Parmanians, the Motavians and the Dezolisians. Unfortunately, there were fluctuations in the strength of the seal, meaning that it would be at its weakest once every thousand years. As a warning of this phenomenon, The Great Light created Rykros, which would return every thousand years, and himself, Le Roof. Chaz asks, rightly, how an invisible planet can be any kind of warning, and Le Roof continues that the mission would be forgotten by the generations of Protectors over a thousand years. He then adds that Rykros was meant to break its silence when the seal's final moment came, to remind the Protectors of the mission they were born to do. Rika asks what Le Roof means by 'final moment', so Le Roof explains that, throughout time, The Profound Darkness has seethed with animosity and the need for revenge. He adds that, once every thousand years when the seal is at its weakest, the most intense part of The Profound Darkness' spirit is able to break through the portal and come to Algo in physical form. Rune understands that this is Dark Force, and Le Roof continues. He tells the party that every time Dark Force appeared, a courageous person would defeat it, and bring about a brief period of peace. However, The Profound Darkness is patient, and it eventually managed to destroy the planet Parma, removing part of the seal.

Now, a thousand years later, The Profound Darkness is trying to free itself completely. Chaz asks if that is what is happening now, but Le Roof just replies that it may be. Rika questions this response, and Le Roof clarifies it by saying that either The Profound Darkness will free itself completely, or someone will conquer the Darkness and render the seal meaningless. Chaz knows that someone means them. Le Roof then tells the Protectors that, if The Profound Darkness escapes, the entirety of Algo will certainly be destroyed. The only way to prevent this is to go to the Darkness' dimension and destroy it. He explains that, as long as the party has the Rings of the Stars, they will be able to withstand the strongest part of the Darkness. He tells the party that the time has come, and to obey the will of The Great Light by destroying The Profound Darkness, pointing out that it is the very mission that they, as Protectors, were born to do. Chaz disagrees.

Chaz asks Le Roof who he thinks they are, insisting that he's not going to fight for any mission. He also asks where The Great Light is now, and why it isn't doing anything. Le Roof replies that it is no longer in their galaxy, but somewhere far away. Chaz gets even madder, stating that The Great Light just hands down missions and then disappears. He adds that he doesn't care about Protectors or missions, and that he won't fight for someone like The Great Light, but live by his own will. Chaz begins to walk off, and Rika calls out to him. Rune tells him that there is no one single truth, and Le Roof tells Chaz that now he has set foot on Rykros he must hurry. He must choose his path.

Back at the Landale, Rika asks Chaz what they are going to do. Chaz doesn't answer, instead telling Rune that he doesn't know what's going on. He adds that, when Alys died, Rune explained things to him and Rika tried to lift his spirits, but he still didn't understand. Chaz adds that all he knew was that the person who had looked after him and taught him everything had died. He continues that he would have gladly sacrificed his life for the peaceful repose of Alys' soul, but gradually he learned that people depended on him to fight. Rune asks if that isn't fine, but Chaz replies that he can't have the fate of all Algo rest on his shoulders. He also adds that the mission is handed down from The Great Light, and if they dance to its tune they are no different from Zio. Rune understands why Chaz might think that, and informs him that there is someone he wants Chaz to meet. He proposes they go to the Esper Mansion.

You will now be at the Algo map screen. Select Dezolis as the destination, then await your return to this cold planet.
