<a id="s6-5-9"></a>

### 6.5.9. Final Preparations

**Starting Party:** Wren , Chaz , Rika , Rune · **Starting Level:** 42-43, 45-46, 48-49, 41-42

Hahn and Gryz are on the left side of the Spaceport, and Rika, Kyra and Demi are on the right. Select one of the characters to join the party by speaking to them and accepting their offer of help. Each of the characters has their own strengths and weaknesses, and they will also be equipped with some of the best equipment they can have.

The following lists show the starting equipment for each of the characters.

<!-- MIXED -->

| Rejoining | Hahn | Gryz | Demi | Raja | Kyra |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Head | MAHLAYRING | LACO-HELM | LACO-GEAR | LACOCIRCLT | LACO-CROWN |  |
| Right | MAHLAYDGGR | LACO-AXE | SONICBUSTR | LACO-ROD | LACOSLASHR |  |
| Left | MAHLAYSHLD | /2-HAND | /2-HAND | /2-HAND | MOONSLASHR |  |
| Body | MAHLAYMAIL | LACO-MAIL | LACO-ARMOR | RFLC-ROBE | RFLC-ROBE |  |

Hahn has a wide range of offensive Techniques and a high Mental score to use them, so select him if you want more psionic power in your group. If you select Hahn as the fifth party member, replace his MAHLAYDGGR with the GUARDSHILD, as he will be using Techniques rather than attacking.

Gryz is a strong character with powerful physical attacks, but has no real skill elsewhere, so select him if you want some more muscle in the party. If you select Gryz as the fifth party member, none of his equipment should be changed unless you acquire a DEFEAT-AXE to replace his LACO-AXE.

Demi is fairly strong, yet also has a few useful Skills to protect and cure the characters, so select her if you want some back-up offence and defence. Also note that Demi is an android, so she is immune to status effects. If you select Demi as the fifth party member, swap her LACO-ARMOR with Wren's GUARDARMOR, as Demi will benefit more from a higher defence.

Raja is the ultimate physician, with a plentiful supply of TP to keep the party alive, so select him if you want a healer and reviver for the party. If you select Raja as the fifth party member, replace his LACO-ROD with two SILVSHIELDs, as he will be mainly healing rather than attacking.

Kyra has a mix of curative and offensive Techniques, miscellaneous Skills and magic spells, so select her if you want an all-rounder for the party. If you select Kyra as the fifth party member, none of her equipment should be changed unless you get another MOONSLASHR to replace her LACOSLASHR.

Once you have made your decision, you will need to place your party in the most effective marching order. The following five lists give these:

Fifty party member: Hahn Gryz Demi Raja Kyra

Marching order: 1 Wren Wren Wren Wren Wren 2 Chaz Gryz Demi Chaz Chaz 3 Rika Chaz Chaz Rika Rika 4 Hahn Rika Rika Rune Kyra 5 Rune Rune Rune Raja Rune

Once you've set the marching order, you will need to boost the party's EXP one last time. Before facing the final challenge you will want every member of the party to be at least Level 45. This should mean that Chaz will be at about Level 49, Rika will be at about Level 52, Rune will be at least Level 45, and Wren will be at about Level 46. The other party member will be of a suitable Level as well. A good place to do this would be one of the towers on Rykros, or Vahal Fort (if you have completed Silver Soldier).

It would also be a good time to sell off all your old items (excluding REPAIR-KITs) and buy as many TRIMATEs, STAR-DEWs and SOL-DEWs as you can afford and carry. Leave space for at least two or three items, as you may acquire some useful things from enemies in the final dungeon.

Once you are done, fully restore your party, then make your way to the village of Mile (by teleporting, driving or walking). Ignore the village (it is dead) and head south to a large grey area. In the middle of the grey patch is a massive hole, and this is your destination. Check your party are fully prepared, save your game, hold your breath, then head on down.
