<a id="s7-1-3"></a>

### 7.1.3. Missing Student

**Recommended Level:** N/A · **When Available:** After shutting down Nurvus · **Commission Awarded:** 3000 MST (-40 MST costs = 2960 MST profit)

We have a request from the caretaker of the student dorms in Piata.

"One of the students entrusted to our care has disappeared. Please find her..."

That is the message.

After accepting this job, teleport to Piata and head to the building in the northwest corner of town. Walk in and speak to the man nearby. He will ask for your help, explaining that one of the female students living in the dorm has gone missing. She had apparently become a devotee of some sort of religious cult, and he had hoped that the infatuation would pass and that she would come back. Obviously, she hasn't. He goes on to point out that something like this could tarnish the reputation of the entire Academy, and begs for the party's help.

The only religious cult that we've come across so far is the one that was worshipping Zio in Kadary. Before going there, however, teleport to Termi and go to the Bayamare Gift Store. Purchase a PEROLYMATE for 40 MST.

Now, teleport to Kadary and go to the large church in the northwest of the village. Head to the northwest corner of the church and speak to the blonde girl that's there. She will cry, saying that she wants to go back to Piata. This must be her. Chaz says that they will take her back, but then the girl feels faint, says that she is hungry, and collapses.

They take her to the Inn in Kadary. The girl is resting in bed, and the old man nearby explains that she was eating irregularly. She needs to eat something nutritious. He will then notice that you have the PEROLYMATE, and inform you of it's high nutritional value. You then give it to the girl.

Speak to the student, and she will be a little dazed. You will then all appear back in the dorm in Piata. The caretaker will thank you, and tell you that he will send the fee to the guild. He also asks if the party could keep the matter to themselves. All done, teleport back to Aiedo and collect your earnings from the guild.
