<a id="s8-1"></a>
## 8.1. Playable Characters

<a id="s8-1-1"></a>

### 8.1.1. Chaz Ashley

**Joins Party:** At start · **Starting Level:** 1

**Initial Stats:** HP 25, TP 10, Str 8, Men 6, Agl 7, Dex 5

**Initial Equipment:** Head: LTHR-HELM, Right: HUNT-KNIFE, Left: HUNT-KNIFE, Body: LTHR-CLOTH

**Initial Techniques:** RES

**Initial Skills:** EARTH (3)

**Chaz Ashley** — Parmanian (Hunter) · Age: 16 · Sex: Male · Lives: Aiedo

Chaz is the core character of the game, and he is the only member of your party that is kept from beginning to end. As an orphaned child, Chaz lived in a far off country, where struggle to survive taught him how to take care of himself in a fight. He did some pretty bad things during this time, until he happened to chance upon a hunter named Alys, who realised his potential and helped Chaz sort himself out. After training with Alys, Chaz finally qualified as a fully-fledged hunter, and it is at this point that the game begins.

He is a headstrong and confident young man, very outwardly emotional and sensitive. He is honest in his opinions of others, especially of Rune in the beginning, although over time both Chaz and Rune begin to respect each other's talents, and end up very close friends. Throughout the game, Chaz's strength seems to flow from his feelings, and early in the game his passion is what manages to scrape him through.

His relationships with the other party characters are varied. He sees Alys as an older sister, someone he looks up to and loves dearly. He suffers greatly after her death, and starts to share Gryz's need for revenge. He also forms a close bond with Rika, and they're affection for each other later forms the romantic element in the game.

As he journeys and meets new and very different friends, he learns to control his emotions and finds that he has a tremendous power inside of him. Through focusing this power he is capable of fulfilling a great destiny that he never knew he had.

Chaz's favoured weapons are swords and daggers, and he wears mainly helms and heavy armours.

Chaz has a range of Techniques, including curative Techs, thunder, force and travel Techs. He is also able to acquire the most powerful Technique in the game, but only after he has mastered his emotions.

His Skills consist of special attacks, a sleep ability, and instant-death.
