<a id="s8-1-10"></a>

### 8.1.10. Kyra Tierney

**Joins Party:** Near Carnivorous Trees · **Starting Level:** 27

**Initial Stats:** HP 159, TP 122, Str 37, Men 43, Agl 35, Dex 40

**Initial Equipment:** Head: SILV-CROWN, Right: LACOSLASHR, Left: RFLCSHIELD, Body: RFLC-ROBE

**Initial Techniques:** RES,FOI,ANTI,

**Initial Skills:** MEDICE (18)

**Kyra Tierney** — Parmanian (Esper) · Age: 18 · Sex: Female · Lives: Mansion

Kyra is the last proper character to join the group, her motivation being one of compassion. She is an Esper, one of a group of magic-users who help the needy and heal the sick. After joining late in the game, Kyra leaves the party once the Garuberk Tower has been destroyed, but returns at the end after her job in Meese has been done.

For her age, Kyra is remarkably mature, if a little impetuous. She is one of the Espers that are looking after the people of Meese, but her rage at the villagers' despair causes her to head to the source of the illness. After the party rescue her from the carnivorous trees, she decides to accompany them to achieve her goal.

Although not much older than Chaz, she assumes a position of leadership in her own eyes, seeing herself as the big sister of the group, especially of Chaz. It even seems that Kyra has a fondness for Chaz that goes beyond mere friendship, but she does not pursue this course. She is an active girl, who makes quick decisions and follows them up immediately.

Kyra is the first person to mention Lutz, and believes that he will have be able to help the party with their problems. She has what seems to be a schoolgirl crush on Lutz, making him out to be handsome, intelligent and charming. This is all very imaginative of her, as she also claims only to have seen him once, and that was from afar. When Kyra discovers that Rune is Lutz, she is initially disappointed and upset by his insensitive nature, but later realises that Rune is a great man and worthy of his title.

Kyra's favoured weapons are slashers, and she wears mainly crowns and robes.

Kyra's Techniques include simple curative, fire and gravity Techs.

Her Skills comprise restoration and several offensive and hindrance spells.
