<a id="s8-1-5"></a>

### 8.1.5. Gryz

**Joins Party:** In Tonoe · **Starting Level:** 6

**Initial Stats:** HP 66, TP 20, Str 18, Men 8, Agl 6, Dex 11

**Initial Equipment:** Head: TITN-HELM, Right: TITN-AXE, Body: TITN-MAIL

**Initial Techniques:** BROSE

**Initial Skills:** CRASH (7)

Motavian (Molcum) · Age: 19 · Sex: Male

Gryz is the muscle of the party, providing a useful offensive edge when faced with enemies that are resilient to magical effects. It is fairly obvious from the start that Gryz has no hidden agenda. He grew up in the small Motavian village of Molcum, west of Krup, with his parents and Pana, his younger sister.

Gryz's family lived peacefully in the village for many years, until one day it was attacked by Zio. Trained as a warrior, Gryz fought valiantly to protect his family and his village, but was unable to save his parents. As the village burned, Gryz took Pana and escaped with some other survivors to the north. It was there that they sealed themselves behind a huge rock and attempted to start anew. This hidden settlement became Tonoe.

Gryz is a strong Motavian and skilled at combat, although he lacks speed and mental power as a consequence. He is an honest person, and forthright with his opinions. Gryz's primary concern at the beginning is to avenge his parents' death, and once this has been achieved he leaves the party to return to his sister. It is only at the end of the game that he returns to fight with his old comrades, after realising that his strength can be used for a far greater purpose than mere vengeance.

Gryz's favoured weapons are axes, and he wears helmets and heavy armour.

Gryz has only one Technique that is a poor instant-death attack.

His Skills consist of strength bolstering, an attack and instant death.
