<a id="s8-1-7"></a>

### 8.1.7. Demi

**Joins Party:** In Krup · **Starting Level:** 12

**Initial Stats:** HP 96, Str 28, Agl 26, Dex 25

**Initial Equipment:** Head: HEAD-GEAR, Right: IMPACTER, Body: TITN-ARMOR

**Initial Techniques:** -

**Initial Skills:** RECOVER (8)

Age: 324 · Lives: Nurvus

Demi is the control android for the Motavian environmental systems, who reports directly to Wren, the manager of the entire Algo system. After she joins the party, she does not accompany them for very long before she is required to restart Nurvus. Demi does return at the end of the game, once her task has been completed.

She does not really have a background in the game, as she is merely an android performing her duties as programmed. After Nurvus begins to run out of control, Demi attempts to shut down the system but is captured by Zio. The party then rescue Demi from Zio's Fort, and she accompanies the party from this point until she is able to complete her mission and shut down Nurvus.

For a three hundred-year-old android, Demi is quite child-like. She takes great joy in working with machines, and helps the party understand what is going on in terms of the environmental control systems in operation. For the most part of the game, Demi is hooked into Nurvus in an attempt to restore each system to its normal function. During this time, her role as technological interpreter is taken by her master, Wren, whom she respects very much.

Demi's favoured weapons are guns, and she wears special android armours.

Demi cannot use Techniques, as she is not human.

Her Skills include self-regeneration, protection and causing instant death, and she can also acquire a powerful weapon upgrade as a Skill as well.
