<a id="s8-2"></a>

## 8.2. Non-playable Characters

This section gives a brief description of each of the key characters that do not join the party. They include allies, enemies and neutral beings, both human and inhuman. Some of the characters are involved in the story itself, some are encountered in the side quests, some are beings that have a connection to an important character or event, and the others are only notable references.

**Type:** Parmanian

Academy Principal - Met in Motavia Academy in Piata.

Initially a suspicious man, he commissions the Guild to rid the academy basement of monsters. He is a rather cowardly man, falling back on his authority when necessary, but folding when faced with power beyond his. Aside from this, he is a good principal, and the academy has run well under his administration.

**Type:** Statue

Doctor Lubetz - Referred to by a statue in Motavia Academy.

A respected scientist of two thousand years ago, he is immortalized by a statue in the front lobby of Motavia Academy.

**Type:** Parmanian

Professor Holt - Referred to by Hahn. Met in Birth Valley and Bio-Plant.

Professor Holt is one of Hahn's teachers at the academy. A rather absent-minded man, he led the expedition into Birth Valley that ultimately led to his disappearance. He is a scientist through and through, sometimes blinding himself to matters more important than his work.

**Type:** Evil Being / Unique

Zio - Referred to by Academy Principal. Met in Zio's Fort and Nurvus.

The initial villain of the game, he is known as the Black Magician. Responsible for the destruction of Molcum and the petrification of Zema, and revered as a god by a number of the residents of Kadary, Zio is a force to be reckoned with early in the story. It is only after facing him that the party realises he is just a pawn in a much bigger game. Zio is a cold, ruthless and intelligent man, his only desire being to wipe out all life on Algo. To this end he wreaks havoc and instills confusion, waiting in anticipation for his master's return.

**Type:** Parmanian

Hahn's Father - Met in the Armour Store in Krup.

Hard-working and honest, Hahn's father is the local blacksmith in Krup. Along with his wife, he owns the armour store where Hahn grew up. Hahn's father had always tried to teach his son the art of being a blacksmith so that Hahn could take over the family business, but Hahn was too interested in books and studying to really pay attention. After Hahn's decision to go to Motavia Academy, Hahn's father disowned him. This was really more an act of frightening Hahn into staying rather than actually disowning him. However, Hahn didn't fall for it.

**Type:** Parmanian

Hahn's Mother - Met in the Armour Store in Krup.

A little more understanding than Hahn's father, Hahn's mother tries to keep the peace between the two men in her life. She appreciates her husband's wish for Hahn to learn his father's trade, but also respects Hahn's decision to study at the Adademy, realising that he should use whatever gifts he has.

**Type:** Parmanian

Saya - Met in the school in Krup.

Saya is the schoolteacher in Krup, and also happens to be Hahn's fiancee. How the two first met is not mentioned in the story, but it would be fair to assume that Hahn and Saya have been engaged for a few years. She is a kind, attractive and smart woman, adored and idolized by the children she teaches. She is also a reasonably talented healer, and looks after Alys when Alys falls ill.

**Type:** Motavian

Grandfather Dorin - Met in the northeast tent in Tonoe.

The chief of the Motavians, Grandfather Dorin is a wise and knowledgable man. He calls himself the information monger, and is generous with both his knowledge and his possessions. He is an old friend of Rune's, and the two help each other for their mutual benefit and the good of the planet. Even with his wisdom, however, Dorin can be a little careless with his speech.

**Type:** Motavian

Pana - Met in the northeast tent in Tonoe.

Gryz's little sister, Pana was brought to Tonoe by her brother after Zio destroyed Molcum. She doesn't say too much, and doesn't really interact in the story, but she is Gryz's only family and Gryz leaves the party to look after her.

**Type:** AI

Seed - Met in Bio-Plant.

Seed is the control system of the Bio-Plant, and Rika's 'father'. He is a vastly intelligent system with extensive knowledge of genetic engineering. He used the scientific knowledge of the ancients and refined it over the last thousand years to create Rika. After the Bio-Plant began creating monsters due to abnormal signals, Seed realised that he must shut himself down, but did not want Rika to die in the process. Hence, once Rika has left with the party, Seed's part in the story ends with his self- destruction.

**Type:** Parmanian

Guild Receptionist - Met in the Hunters' Guild in Aiedo.

This woman is the point of contact between the hunters and the Guild. The party can speak to the receptionist to be given information about current available jobs, and can also take these jobs from the Guild through her. Plus, she is the person to see to claim the commission for completed jobs.

**Type:** Parmanian

Sand Worm Ranch Owner - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Met in Mile.

The owner of the sand worm ranch is initially a

man full of hopes for the future, but after his prized pets become too big to handle, he realises that he can no longer look after them. He posts a request to the Hunters' Guild, and the party can take this job afterwards. After the party take care of the fully grown sand worm, the ranch owner is understandably upset. Even though he lost his dream, the ranch owner seemed to be the sort of man who would prosper again. However, fate has another cruel stab at the entrepreneur, as he is later killed by the Black Energy Wave.

**Type:** Evil Being / Warlock

Juza - Met in Zio's Fort.

Seemingly Zio's right-hand man, Juza is a powerful mage whose sole purpose is to protect his master. He blocks the entrance to the upper level of Zio's Fort, as the staircase that leads there is only accessible after Juza's demise.

**Type:** Parmanian

Tinkerbell - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Met in the eastern house in Aiedo.

This little girl loses her pet dog Rocky, and her parents commission the Guild to find the dog for her. After the party accepts this job from the Guild, Tinkerbell does not need to be spoken to at all, as she gives no valuable information.

**Type:** Parmanian

Tinkerbell's Father - Met in the eastern house in Aiedo.

Tinkerbell's father is the man who sends the request to the Guild to find his daughter's pet. In this job, the party will need to speak to the man to get more details about the commission and a few clues about Rocky.

**Type:** Parmanian

Tinkerbell's Mother - Met in the eastern house in Aiedo.

Like her husband, Tinkerbell's mother is a useful person to speak to in the second Hunters' Guild job, as she can give a few hints as to how to find Rocky, her daughter's dog.

**Type:** Dog

Rocky - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Met in either Krup, Monsen or Termi.

This fat, white dog is Tinkerbell's pet. It can be seen in either Krup, Monsen or Termi, even before the second job is available from the Guild. Rocky has a penchant for sweet things, and this knowledge is useful when the party attempt to capture him.

**Type:** Parmanian

Earthquake Man - Met in Monsen.

This man is found outside in the eastern part of Monsen, just above the crack in the ground. When the party speak to him, an earthquake follows, and the party can learn of the problems that Monsen have been having. This leads to a visit to the Plate System in order to stop the earthquakes.

**Type:** Statue

Alis Landale - Referred to by a statue in Termi.

This heroine of legend is revered by the residents of Termi, as she once stayed in this village. The statue in the centre of the village represents Alis Landale, and tourists come from miles around to see the sights that Termi has to offer because of her. You may also have noticed that the spaceship found under Tyler is named after her.

**Type:** Darkspawn / Demon

Gy-Laguiah - Met in Ladea Tower and Climate Control Centre.

This agent of Zio is first encountered in Ladea Tower, after Rune succeeds in breaking the barrier around the Psycho-wand. It had been awaiting their arrival, and attempts to take the Psycho-wand as soon as it is released. The party fight this demon to prevent this from happening. Another Gy-Laguiah is found guarding the entrance to the Climate Control Centre, but this one is not very talkative.

**Type:** Dark Force

Dark Force - Referred to by Zio. Met in Kuran, Garuberk Tower and Soldiers' Temple.

The physical manifestation of The Profound Darkness in Algo, Dark Force is a being of pure evil. Every thousand years, when the seal is at its weakest, Dark Force appears to wreak havoc and attempt to break open the dimensional door, but is always defeated by a group of brave heroes. However, since the planet Parma was destroyed, the seal has been drastically weakened, and this has caused there to be more than just one incarnation of this vile creature. Each Dark Force is a difficult opponent.

**Type:** Parmanian

Dorm Caretaker - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Met in the Academy Dormitory in Piata.

This man is responsible for looking after the students at Motavia Academy who stay in the dorms in the northwest corner of Piata. After one of the female students disappears, he posts a request to the Guild to help find her. The party must speak to the Dorm Caretaker in the third Hunters' Guild job to get details about the commission.

**Type:** Parmanian

Student Cult Devotee - Referred to by Dorm Caretaker. Met in the church in Kadary.

This girl is the missing student in the third Guild job, and is initially a devotee of Zio's cult. After Zio's demise, she is found wandering around the church in Kadary, dazed. Due to malnutrition, the girl falls ill, and is taken to the Inn.

**Type:** Parmanian

Caring Old Man - Met in the Inn in Kadary.

In the third Hunters' Guild job, after the missing student is found she collapses and is taken to the Inn in Kadary. The old man who looks after her tells the party that they must bring the girl some food with high nutritional value. The old man has no further involvement in the game.

**Type:** Parmanian

Eddie - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Met in the eastern house in Monsen.

This woman lives just outside the large crack in Monsen, and has always been worried that her son Tallas might accidentally fall down it. Alas, this does happen a little later, and so Eddie requests the aid of the Hunters' Guild. In the fourth Guild job, the party must speak to Eddie to allow them access to the crack in the ground. After rescuing Tallas, the party can return to the woman and get the commission sent to the Guild.

**Type:** Parmanian

Tallas - Referred to by Eddie. Met in The Hole.

The young boy Tallas is at the focus of the fourth Hunters' Guild job. While playing outside, he accidentally falls down the crack in Monsen. If the party take the job, they must follow Tallas into the cave beneath Monsen, and rescue him from the Fract Ooze that had eaten him. Strangely, Tallas is not too shaken by his close shave with digestion, and thanks the party in a matter-of-fact way before running back home (picking up his shoes en route).

**Type:** Evil Being / Sorcerer

Chaos Sorcerer - Met on the shuttle after Zelan.

Nothing more than a sneaky saboteur, this Chaos Sorcerer is the only one of its kind that engages the party in conversation. After the party leave Zelan on the shuttle, the Chaos Sorcerer is found in the engine room, attempting to sabotage their flight to Kuran. After he is defeated by the party, it turns out that he had been successful, and the group are forced to crash on Dezolis.

**Type:** Dezolisian

Gyuna - Met in the bar in Ryuon.

The proprietor of the bar in Ryuon, and a friend of Raja's, Gyuna is Dezolis' answer to Grandfather Dorin. The party must speak to this man in order to learn the method of gaining access to the Landale. He has other topics that he can discuss, but none of them is important to the game.

**Type:** Grave

Tyler - Referred to by the grave in Tyler.

The founder of the town in which he is buried, Tyler was the captain of a Parmanian spaceship that crashed on Dezolis many centuries ago. To honour his death, and to protect the secret of the ship's location, the Parmanians erected a monument to Tyler in the town to which his name was given. The grave is, in fact, the entrance to the hangar where the Landale is hidden.

**Type:** Musk cat

Musk Cat Chief - Met in Mysterious Valley.

A completely optional area of the game is a strange place called Mysterious Valley, home to the musk cats. They are a race of small orange felines, each capable of speech, and led by a much larger chief. The musk cats have a fond remembrance of Chaz, although this may be due to his inherited legacy as a destined Protector of Algo. The musk cat chief gives the party the Silver Tusk, entrusted to his care a long time ago, as he feels that they are worthy to take care of this secret treasure.

**Type:** Evil Being / Witch

D-Elm-Lars - Met in Climate Control Centre.

This witch is found in the Climate Control Centre, as a trap for the party should they think that the Dezolis snowstorm is caused by a malfunction in this system. His sole purpose is to kill the party, but he is not any sort of challenge to them.

**Type:** Esper

Off-Duty Esper - Met in the clinic in Meese.

In order for the party to continue the plot of the game, they must speak to this Esper who is found in the right-hand room on the top floor of the clinic in Meese. Doing this will cause Raja to fall sick from the Black Energy Wave, and promptly alert the party to Kyra's courageous (if somewhat futile) attempt to enter the Garuberk Tower.

**Type:** Esper

Lutz - Referred to by Kyra. Met in Esper Mansion (technically).

You could say that this should be in the playable character section, as Lutz is in fact in the form of Rune. However, Lutz is a different person, from two millenia ago, who was a great wizard. He, too, defeated Dark Force with a group of allies, and through his magic was able to transfer his spirit into a Telepathy Ball. As leader of the Espers, he chose a worthy subject to carry his will, and they became Lutz. As each host grew older, they selected a new Lutz, and passed their combined knowledge onto their successor. Rune is the fifth-generation Lutz, and possesses all the knowledge of his predecessors.

**Type:** Dezolisian

Dezolisian Priest - Met in Gumbious Temple.

This nameless cleric is the keeper of the Eclipse Torch, a holy relic stored in Gumbious Temple. When the party request to borrow the torch, he flatly refuses, but his stubbornness is punished by the Eclipse Torch's theft by a trio of Xe-A-Thouls. In return for the party reclaiming the temple's sacred flame, the Dezolisian priest agrees to lend them the Eclipse Torch.

**Type:** Evil Beings / Witches

Xe-A-Thouls - Met in Gumbious Temple and Air Castle.

These three witches are the servants of Lashiec, and are first encountered by the party in Gumbious Temple. The Xe-A-Thouls steal the Eclipse Torch, and take it back with them to the Air Castle, an ancient fortress that once floated above Parma. The party must defeat the Xe-A-Thouls in the Air Castle in order to pass the invisible barrier that blocks entry to the castle's basement.

**Type:** Evil Being / Unique

Lashiec - Referred to by Rune. Met in Air Castle Basement.

Lashiec was the king of the Air Castle when it flourished two thousand years ago, but he was slain by the first Lutz and the castle was thought to be destroyed. However, since the rise in the Darkness' power, Lashiec and his stronghold have reappeared, albeit in a more twisted form. Lashiec is behind the theft of the Eclipse Torch, although it seems certain that his only interest in Dezolis' sacred relic is to use it as bait to lure Lutz and his companions. His need for revenge, coupled with the malign influence of the Darkness, has turned Lashiec into a wretched creature, imprisoned in his own castle. When the party find him, he expresses his intent to trap them there with him, but with his defeat, he and the Air Castle are destroyed.

**Type:** Dezolisian

Dezolisian Bishop - Met under Gumbious Temple.

After the party defeat the second Dark Force, and the Garuberk Tower is no more, Gumbious Temple explodes. Under its ruins, the party find a secret chamber, where the bishop of Gumbious Temple is discovered. He speaks to the party of Dark Force, and reveal the existence of its master, The Profound Darkness. The Dezolisian bishop also tells the party of Rykros, where the secrets of Algo are supposed to be found.

**Type:** Profound Darkness

The Profound Darkness - Referred to by Dezolisian Bishop. Met in The Edge.

The ultimate evil, The Profound Darkness is a being filled with hate, anger and hostility. Many eons ago, the Darkness was trapped by its 'brother', The Great Light, in another dimension, following a battle that stretched over many years. It, like The Great Light, were once part of a divine spiritual being that was split into two. The dimensional portal that trapped the Darkness was closed by a great seal, known today as the Algo star system.

**Type:** Parmanian

Chief of Uzo - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Met in southwest house in Uzo.

The chief of Uzo has two daughters, both of whom went shopping in Aiedo. After about a month, the chief began to get concerned, and sent a request to the Hunters' Guild for help in finding them. This man, who lives in the southwest house of Uzo, is the person to speak to after accepting the fifth Hunters' Guild job.

**Type:** Parmanians

Chief's Daughters - Referred to by Chief of Uzo. Met in prison in Aiedo.

These two girls can initially be met in the Inn in Aiedo, and if the party speak to the girls before resting at the Inn, you can witness them attempting to run out without paying. They get caught, as you would expect, and are thrown into jail. This event has no importance until the fifth Hunters' Guild job, when their father requests that the party find his daughters. They must pay the girls' bail in order to complete this job.

**Type:** Parmanian

Mr. Culvers - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Met in northwest house in Torinco.

The Culvers family used to take regular trips to Termi, where they spent many a happy drinking in the delights of that fair village. Alas, the young boy of the family becomes ill, and his Mr. Culvers thinks that perhaps something to remind his son of their time in Termi may help him to get better. Because he is unable to get to Termi himself, Mr. Culvers posts a request to the Hunters' Guild for help, and this becomes the sixth Guild job.

**Type:** Parmanian

Mr. Culvers' Son - Met in northwest house in Torinco.

The young Culvers boy is ill when first encountered by the party, although the doctors that have seen him are convinced that there is nothing wrong with him, and that his condition is psychological. In the sixth Hunters' Guild job, Mr Culvers, the boy's father, requests that the party bring something to his son that will remind him of Termi. He hopes that this might cause him to get better. When Chaz wields the replica of Alis' sword in front of the boy, Mr Culvers' son does begin to feel better, and Chaz allows him to keep the sword.

**Type:** Parmanian

Mr. Sekreas - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Met in northeast house in Torinco.

Mr. Sekreas is an avid animal lover, and when a new breed of bird is discovered on his island, he helps the species by helping them flourish in a nearby cave. Unfortunately, the rappy birds soon outgrow their rocky home, and begin to plunder the fields around the village of Torinco, so the villagers decide they must be destroyed. Mr. Sekreas posts a request to the Hunters' Guild asking for help to destroy the chief bird, but his intention is not to have the bird killed at all. His hope is that the hunters will be defeated by the bird so that the villagers will be disuaded from their attempts to exterminate it. The party must fight the bird in the seventh Guild job, but when the party defeat it, the bird escapes and Mr. Sekreas intervenes, explaining his original plan. He had no intention to pay the commission, but the party are kind enough to let him off.

**Type:** Parmanian

Old Man in Zema - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Met in northeast house in Zema.

As if Zema hadn't had enough trouble, near the end of the game it becomes overrun with machines. The machines are not hostile, but the villagers are understandably afraid. To this end, an old man who resides in Zema sends a request to the Hunters' Guild, and this becomes the final Guild job. The party must speak to this man, located in the northeast corner of the village, in order to gain access to Vahal Fort.

**Type:** AI

Daughter - Met in Vahal Fort.

Before the Great Collapse, Mother Brain designed a new control system to govern the Algo network, just in case an emergency did occur. When Parma exploded and the system collapsed, it was thought that the plan had never been put into action, but this supposition was false. Even though a new, less intrusive, control system was now in place on the artificial satellite Zelan, the Daughter project had already reached the prototype stage on Motavia. Nurvus had kept Daughter dormant while it managed the planet's environment, but after the party shut down Nurvus, Daughter is awakened. As its function is to manage the systems of Algo, Daughter begins to send signals to the rest of the control centres, but is unaware of its network isolation. As there is no response from the other systems, Daughter decides to remove the rogue AIs, and sends machines to regain its control. In the eighth Guild job, the party trace the source of the machines to Vahal Fort, and find the prototype Daughter there. They try to reason with it, but eventually realise that they have to shut it down.

**Type:** Guardian

Le Roof - Met in Silence Temple.

This being is best described as the lord of Rykros, responsible for guarding its existence and passing on the secrets of Algo to those worthy enough to be called Protectors. It isn't quite clear whether Le Roof is a physical entity or simply a spirit, but he is a wise and compassionate being. His role is to remind the Protectors of Algo of their duty, but he can only do this after they have proved their identity by passing De-Vars and Sa-Lews.

**Type:** Guardian

De-Vars - Met in Strength Tower.

The guardian of the Strength Tower is a large being of red flame, whose sole purpose is to test the party in combat. He is a master of physical power, and holds three of the Rings of the Stars that he gives to the party once they have passed his test.

**Type:** Guardian

Sa-Lews - Met in Courage Tower.

The guardian of the Courage Tower is a large being of blue flame, whose sole purpose is to test the party in combat. He is a master of magical power, and holds two of the Rings of the Stars that he gives to the party once they have passed his test.

**Type:** The Great Light

The Great Light - Referred to by Le Roof.

Not much is said about The Great Light in the game, as he departed from Algo may eons ago. He, like The Profound Darkness, was once part of a celestial spirit. After the spirit split into two, the Light and the Darkness waged a massive battle. After a long fight, The Great Light emerged victorious, and banished his 'brother' to another dimension, placing the Algo star system as a seal to its doorway. Before he left, he created Rykros as a sign of the seal's weakening, and Protectors to push back the Darkness should it attempt escape.

**Type:** Sword

Elsydeon - Referred to by Rune. Met in Sacred Sword Cave.

You may (rightly) question why I regard Elsydeon as a character, and my response is that it is met by Chaz, and speaks with him. You may disagree with my classification, but I'm sure Rune doesn't. The sword embodies all the spirits of the heroes that fought the Darkness, and it chooses whom is worthy to wield it. Since the Great Collapse, Elsydeon has been stored in the lowest level of the Esper Mansion, awaiting the arrival of the next Protector of Algo. Rune, as Lutz, chose Chaz for this task, and Elsydeon is satisfied with his decision.

**Type:** Illusion

Alys Illusion - Met in Anger Tower.

This illusion is used by Re-Faze to instill anger into Chaz, the purpose being to test his strength of will and determine his worth.

**Type:** Guardian

Re-Faze - Met in Anger Tower.

On the top of the Anger Tower resides another guardian of Rykros, but he seems a little more chaotic than his brethren. When the party attempt to enter the Anger Tower, Re-Faze determines if they are worthy of entrance. Only after Chaz has acquired Elsydeon do the party pass his scrutiny, but this is only the beginning of Re-Faze's trials. Once Chaz defeats the illusion of Alys on the top floor of the tower, Re-Faze appears. Chaz is angered by the situation, and Re-Faze tells him that there is a way for Chaz to turn his rage into power. If Chaz declines Re-Faze's offer to learn of this ability, Re-Faze grants him Megid.
