<a id="s2-4"></a>

## 2.4. D E K A R

Strong as Rock for Soul Calibur, a loyal as a terrior and the MOST powerful warrior in existance. He is NOT known to be intelligent, however he makes up with this while putting Muscle in the place of his brains. Dekar deep down is quite a sensitive bloke, he would be the perfect match for Tia but this does not happen, which means I could have made the game more exciting...if it had been a 32 meg cartridge who knows how wonderful the game could have been! He is quite dumb, so he ends up chasing Idura to the ends of the Earth....like a dumb person he falls for every trap set up by Idura, but brute strength tends to save his ass in the end! It's fair to say that Guy could never replace him when it comes to Strength, but he's VERY unagile compared to the others. Like he says, his love is his sword, so in the end he ends up with no woman, which is a shame because he's second best in the league of characters, well some of you love him to death, so I can't be too cruel here!

The Strongest warrior, he has more endurance, strength and HP than all warriors in this game, think of him as an upgrade for GUY! Despite his brute strengh, he is far too dumb to use spells, like Kain from FF4 his MP value is "ZERO" making his unable to cast spells not matter what happens, he can be given spells if the game is hacked, however he will also need MP to use them...which means more game hacking!

**Final Equipment:** Fry Sword, Apron Shield, Legend Helm, Old Armor, Rocket Ring &

Black Eye.
