<a id="s4-10"></a>

## 4.10. The Basement

**MAIN GOALS** Obtain an Explosive Surprise! Catch up with the Weirdos! Obtain the Crown!

**Items:** Bomb, Headband, Coat, Light Knife, Secret Fruit, Miracle, Dragon Egg, Crown

The Basement is riddled with all sorts of monsters; but sadly, you don't get to fight a boss here. Inside the first room, you will find a door and a weak wall; which can be destroyed by a bomb, a short while later. Go through the door and place the pot onto the switch; this will cause another door to open leaving you on a one way path, once again. The next room contains two blocks and two tiles; first of all move one of the blocks onto the first tile; this will cause the gap between the walls below to widen. The other block can now be moved through the gap, and onto the southern tile; which again will cause another door to unlock itself!

Head through the door, and follow the one way path, till you come to a Blue Chest, containing the bomb item; which can be used to blow things up. After obtaining the Bomb; head back to the weak wall you found before, and blow it to smithereens; you can now proceed further into the hideout of the weirdos.

> **Remember:** Bombs are a wonderful tool to have; but they do explode after you take Six steps; or if you swing your sword six times. You can plant bombs by pressing the same button as you would use for arrows; in this case the button you need to press is "Y".

Upon entering the room, head right and down, till you see a vase; pick up the Vase and take it along the path to the left. Activate the switch, and go back to the entrance of this room; this time, head right, till you finally crash into a wall. First of all, ignore the chest above you; and head South to find another chest, containing a Headband. Backtrack upwards a few steps; and head left at the first turn, then South to reach a staircase and a monster. Head downstairs, into another room, which has a weak wall and a door. If you for some reason need some major first aid, head through the door; after healing your HP's and MP's, you should blow up the weak wall.

The room following on, contains some monsters; you can either avoid them, or you can destroy them. After making your choice, go through the next door, and you will come to another puzzle, involving Vases and Switches. First of all; put the vase onto the upper switch, to open the Northern door. Enter the door and take the Escape item from the chest; head back out, then put the vase on the lower switch; to open the Southern door. Head through the opened door and kill off the bats; then push the block to the right of the weak wall, and use a bomb; after the wall crumbles; proceed into the next room. Inside here, you will come to a horrible puzzle, which is possibly the hardest one yet; I have tried to explain it as best as I can, in the form of Ascii diagrams!

```
<> Stage I <>
    -=-=-=-=-                            ASCII CHARACTERS
  This puzzle involves three             ¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬
  different colours of blocks;           I have chosen ascii characters, to
  which need to disappear in             symbolize each different color, of
  order to open the door.                the blocks used in this puzzle; if
                                         you check below, you can see the
  First of all, Move the lowest          chosen ascii characters;-
  Yellow block, left two paces;
  then up two paces, to get rid          ¥ - Red Block
  of three yellow blocks!                Ø - Orange Block
                                         ß - Blue Block
  -----   -----
  ¦ ¥ ¦   ¦ Ø ¦
  ---------------------
  ¦ Ø ¦ ¥ ¦ Ø ¦ ß ¦ ß ¦
  ---------------------
  ¦ Ø ¦ Ø ¦ ß ¦ ¥ ¦ ¥ ¦
  ---------------------
      ¦ ¥ ¦ ß ¦   ¦ ß ¦
      ---------   -----
      ¦ Ø ¦ <- MAX
      -----
```

<> Stage II <> -=-=-=-= Secondly, move the upper red block, left four paces. Then move the upper orange block left two paces. After that, move the final yellow block up two paces, and two paces to the right; to get rid of three more yellow blocks!

```
-----   -----
          ¦ ¥ ¦<- ¦ Ø ¦<- 2nd
  ---------------------
  ¦ Ø ¦ ¥ ¦ Ø ¦ ß ¦ ß ¦
  ---------------------
    Î     ¦ ß ¦ ¥ ¦ ¥ ¦
  3rd -----------------
      ¦ ¥ ¦ ß ¦   ¦ ß ¦
      ---------   -----
```

<> Stage III <> -=-=-=-=- This time; move two of the blocks two paces to the left; but ignore the upmost block.

```
-----
  ¦ ¥ ¦ <- IGNORE!
  -----        -----   ---------
               ¦ ¥ ¦<- ¦ ß ¦ ß ¦
               -----------------
                   ¦ ß ¦ ¥ ¦ ¥ ¦
                   -------------
                   ¦ ß ¦   ¦ ß ¦
               ---------   -----
               ¦ ¥ ¦<- 2nd
               -----
```

<> Stage IV <> -=-=-=-= Move the lower blue block, two paces to the left; and then three paces upwards. Next, move the 2nd lower blue block; three paces to the left, and two paces upwards. To finish off the blue blocks, move the last blue block up one pace, to make a complete line; causing the blue blocks to vanish!

```
-----
  ¦ ¥ ¦
  ---------            ---------
      ¦ ¥ ¦            ¦ ß ¦ ß ¦
      -----        -------------
                   ¦ ß ¦ ¥ ¦ ¥ ¦
                   -------------
                   ¦ ß ¦<- ¦ ß ¦<- 2nd
      -----        ----- Î -----
      ¦ ¥ ¦             3rd
      -----
```

<> Stage V <> -=-=-=- To finish off; move one of the upper blocks, two paces to the right and one pace downwards. The second upper block should be moved two paces right, and two paces down; and the last red block should be moved, right three paces and up two paces. This will cause the door to open, and you have now solved, this horrible puzzle; which was rather hard to explain!

```
2nd
  -----
->¦ ¥ ¦
  ---------
    ->¦ ¥ ¦
      -----            ---------
                       ¦ ¥ ¦ ¥ ¦
                       ---------
```

```
-----
 3rd->¦ ¥ ¦
      -----
```

After solving this puzzle; you will gain access to two doors, the Northern door leads you into a small room; with a chest containing a Coat, which can be equipped by Tia. After obtaining the coat, you can now head through the Southern door; inside this room, you will find a monster, and two blocks to push, in order to gain access to the stairs. After heading down the stairs; you will come to a warp portal surrounded by four switches. Before you even touch the portal or the switches, head for the left side of the room, where you will find two blocks and two tiles; currently you can only push one of the blocks, so move it onto the first tile, and go back to the warp portal.

The Warp Portal takes you to four different places, this depends on, which of the four switches, is activated. To activate the switches, you must place the vase on top of them; first of all, you must activate the bottom right switch.

-> BOTTOM RIGHT SWITCH! <-

This switch takes you to a room containing a Mad Horse and a chest, to obtain the treasure, you must defeat the Mad Horse; by killing the monster, you will have removed the spikes from in front of the chest. The chest contains a cool Light Knife weapon; which can also boost your "MGR" by 10 points.

-> UPPER RIGHT SWITCH!! <-

This switch takes you into a room with a Mini Maze; navigate your way through the maze, and take the secret fruit from the chest. To the right of this Mini Maze, you will find a weak wall, which can be bombed in order to acquire, a valuable "Miracle Potion".

-> UPPER LEFT SWITCH!!! <-

This switch takes you to a room with a monster, and a wooden crate; and some more treasure; first of all, dispose of the monster and place a bomb to the left of the crate, walk over the spikes within six steps and the crate will get blown up; if you mess up you will just have to cast "Reset". The Crates somehow connected with the water in front of the chest; when the crate blows

up, you can claim your prize, a Dragon Egg. After taking the Dragon Egg, you should head through the door, and push the other block onto the tile. This will cause the spikes to your left to disappear, you should then head back to the warp portal in order to activate the last switch!

-> BOTTOM LEFT SWITCH!! <-

This switch takes you into a room, where you will have to fight three rounds of Cobalts. The good thing about these hound like creatures, is that they do occasionally run away. First of all, you must take out all the Cobalts; this will cause the upcoming door to open; proceed through the door, you should be in a room with the spikes that have disappeared. First of all, kill off that lousy bat thing, and head left, then head down the stairs and keep going till you finally meet up with the weirdos!

The weirdos still have the crown, so its about time you took it off them; but somehow your caught up in one of their traps. This is no problem, the weirdos throw the switch, and voila, the useless, pathetic trap backfires. Sadly, the crown was washed away with them, but its still O.K; you should stamp on the switch to the south, which will cause the wall to disappear. Once the wall is out of the way, you may now head through the bottom left door, where you will find the Crown. Pick up the crown and take it back to the King; even though hes stupid enough to lose it again, not that he does though!
