<a id="s4-11"></a>

## 4.11. Story Events

**MAIN GOALS** Claim your reward for snatching the Crown! Don't pick the Princess as you reward! *You have Tia anyway!* Get "Foomy" a Capsule Monster!

**Items:** 3000GP

After trailing back to the King, he will offer you a reward, all rewards seem to be fair, apart from the King himself; which really doesn't come into it. I would personally choose nothing, coz its pays off much better. It will also make you 3000GP richer, but if you pick the other rewards, you do tend to get lower amounts of money!

The options are Princess, King, Money and Nothing;-

Princess = 500GP + Tia Glaring at you! <- Don't be tempted! King = 1000GP + Sad joke from King! Money = 2000GP Nothing = 3000GP <- Please pick this one!

- **own Inn, for as little as 20GP. When you've regained all your lost health and**
  - magic points, buy all the latest weapons and armours; you should also buy a
  - spare Long Knife, coz it will come in useful soon. Upon leaving Alunze, you
  - should head back to the Shrine, but stop at the last patch of desert area. On
  - this trail, head left around the mountains and into the small tree, this will
  - take you into an area with a lone girl; this area appears to be Foomy woods,
  - home of a capsule monster called, um, FOOMY!

Inside Foomy woods, the girl says something about you fighting Foomy, but for some weird reason; you don't actually get to. Foomy accepts you and he joins your party as a capsule monster; this is when you should give him some food. In this case give him a Long Knife, its exactly what food he requests, and it would be a good idea, to keep him in a hearty mood.
