<a id="s4-13"></a>

## 4.13. North West Cave

**MAIN GOALS** Who Stole the Key? Meet Abel! Tear the Regal Goblin to Shreds! The Key! Get the damn Key!

**Items:** 2 × Hi-Potion, Horse Rock, Light Armor, Brave, Miracle, Hi-Magic, Power Brace, Witch Ring, Shrine Key

Abel has nicked the Key, however he has lost the damn thing, while he was in a sudden panic over some weird monster; whatever happens, Tia manages to calm the poor lad down, and we can be on our way, into the cave! Once inside, head down the ladder and walk forwards, can you see a lever? Fire an arrow at the lever and open the chest to receive a Hi-Potion! Now, head back a little and head up the second ladder, and use one of the planks to repair the bridge. Go across this new bridge and walk past the monster, or kill him; enter the door and place the three vases onto the switches...one of the vases is hiding behind the eastern pillar. Once all three switches are covered, you can enter the Northern door, inside walk in a clockwise direction and head through the upcoming door, move downwards and avoid the monsters, there's a weak patch on the floor so by all means "Fall Down" and break a leg or two!

Move in the eastern direction and avoid the "Big Bat" unless you are in need of some extra cash, or experience points...make sure you push the block in the eastern direction to gain access to a switch...when you've done this, be sure to move the block just above you, one pace upwards. Last of all, face the door and do a 180° Turn, move the block onto the switch and proceed! In the treasure box, there be a Horse Rock, get the rock equipped on Tia for some extra muscle.

Now! Move the western blocks, enter the door...grab the vase and drop em' on a hidden switch, which should make some stairs on an opposite platform reveal themselves. Head back outside and proceed in a western direction, keep going and enter the upcoming door, move into the centre of the room and walk south; enter the staircase and grab the "Light Armor" from another treasure box!

Go back upstairs, enter the previous room and enter the western door, you now

find a hell load of battles in your path; so kill all five monsters in this

chamber and be happy with the experience points! Don't bother with the stairs

to your north; these will lead back to the very first chamber, instead, you

**should enter the southern door... ...Inside there's some stairs and another**

door, go inside the door, cut down the vines on the wall and enter a secret

area...open the treasure boxes to receive a "Brave" Potion and a Miracle!

You can get your hands on even more treasures, so head back into the previous room, and enter the Staircase this time. Walk forwards, go up the ladder and head right, now open all three chests to obtain a Power Brace, a Hi-Potion and a Hi-Magic; and make sure all the monsters die! After breaking free of the monster trap, head upwards, move the statues to form a bridge across the small lake, and move the second lot of statues as close to the eastern wall as possible; if you form a bridge here, you can get hold of a "Witch Ring" a nice treasure which can only be equipped by Girls; Tia is the only Girl you have right now, so give her the new ring!

When you have the Witch Ring, head downstairs, you should be in a room with two doors and a staircase....to begin with head down the stairs in the lower left corner of the room, follow the path into a room with enemies, enter the door, walk over to the switch, and activate! Water levels will drop, so head back into the room with two doors and a staircase, the one you entered! This time, try the door eastern door, go inside walk past the two enemies, enter the door and stomp on the switch, and once again the water levels will drop!

Head back into the previous room, and take the Northern door; go down the stairs and use the healing tiles at your own disposal, make sure you save the game too! After gaining lost HP and MP's, head up the steps and place a bomb in front of the weakened wall; it should blow leaving you with a clean entrance to the boss chamber. Go inside speak to the Goblin and take him on!

**Boss:** Regal Goblin · **HP:** 500

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ The Regal Goblin is hard! He will summon enemies to kill of unguarded team members, even though he has no spells, this battle can be tough. Let's begin with a simple attacking strategy, I assume Maxim has a "Short Sword" equipped so use the "Ice Attack" Ikari Technique to inflict a little extra damage; let Tia do the healing and use the Horse Rock to attack with "Frenzy" and Jelze will use normal attacks, or "Foomy Punch" whenever he gets a turn! This Regal Goblin will summon Goblins and Goblin Mages, these can be hard to kill in one blow, so you will need to hit them more than once! Tia should not use "Spark" unless she's equipped with a really bad weapon, such as the "Frying Pan" or "Small Knife" otherwise, stick to Frenzy, Ice attack and Tia's "Strong" spell for this strategy, when he falls, Maxim and Tia will get 1,800 exp. and 500GP for their troubles..and access to the Shrine Key of course!

Regal Gobbo' is dead, so take the damn key, and move to the shrine leading to Tanbel, meet up with Hilda and follow her to Tanbel; and read on for the next set of events, you should also be prepared for a few battles included on this small journey!
