<a id="s4-14"></a>

## 4.14. Tanbel

**MAIN GOALS** Stock up on some new spells! Meet Guy and allow him to join your party! Watch the little scene involving Guy! Upgrade your equipment!

Upon entering Tanbel, you will meet up with Hilda, she will ask your names; then her brother comes along. Her brother is a master swordsman, who appears to be called, GUY. Hilda says shes also going to cook something, to welcome Maxim and Tia; while Guy would rather go to his usual training spot which is pretty normal for a swordsman. After gaining control of your team, head into the northern part of the village, and speak to Guy. Its time for a match, so Guy struts all his stuff, and some Dude comes along before Maxim even gets a chance to move; it seems that monsters are in town, and by the looks of it; Maxim, Guy and Tia are first on the list. In an instance, you will be drawn into a boss battle with two Followers!

**Boss:** 2 × Follower

**HP:** 150 each! · **Weakness:** Water

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ The Two Followers seem to have a severe weakness against water; which means you should use Water elemental spells. When the battle begins, have Tia use her Droplet spell, and have Maxim and Guy attack normally; considering this battle won't last long, you won't need to bother with healing spells. After your victory, you will receive, 200 experience and 500GP; which isn't bad.

After you've hammered the followers, Camu will leave, and someone will report Guy's sister missing. Before you go and rescue her, you should buy some stuff from the equipment store; first of all, get two Kukri swords for Maxim & Guy; then upgrade their armours; as well as this, you should buy a Wire and Light Dress for Tia; because her defense needs to be at its highest, with her being a weak person. Meaning she cannot take very much damage without falling into the cleft of dimensions; this is also a great time to obtain some new spells. You should buy, all the elemental spells; which are Flash, Gale, Droplet and Spark, all but the Spark spell, can be used by Maxim. When you've finished in the shopping district; you may now head for the South East Tower, where Hilda is being held hostage.
