<a id="s4-15"></a>

## 4.15. South East Tower

**MAIN GOALS** Rescue Hilda and Defeat Camu! Grab all the cool treasures!

Items -> Sky Key, Jute Helmet

The first room of the tower, contains two doors and a monster; First off kill the monster, and secondly, head through the left door, as the right door will lead to a dead end. Inside the new room, you will come across various tiles; the middle tile appears to be decorated by a monsters face. First of all, you should stand on the middle tile, to reveal four switches, to show how all the switches are arranged, I've prepared a simple ascii diagram.

(@)

¦   ¦                "As you can see, we have four switches and

**three blocks; First of all, you must push**

the Northern block, five paces south, and

**_ _ onto the Southern switch. Next move the**

(@) ¦   ¦   |0^0|   ¦   ¦ (@)     other blocks, so that they activate the

**left and right switches; the final switch**

needs to be activated by a vase which can

be found somewhere in this room; tell you

_                   what, I will explain, you will find three

(@)                  more blocks in the room; if you push them

out of the way, you will find a vase, the

vase will need to be placed onto the last

switch, so you can finally enter the next

door, and continue you rescue mission!

Inside the Upcoming room, you will find some stairs, and a monster; so kill off the monster, and take the stairs into the next room; keep going till you come across a room with two goblins inside. One of those Goblins is guarding the switch; to gain access to the switch, you must dispose of it first; then you may activate the switch, and proceed into the next room. The door in the next room, leads outside, where you will find another door; which takes you into a room with some tiles, as well as a statue. First of all, you need to push the Statue onto the black tile; which will open all available paths in this area. Head into the new cut in the wall, and keep going till you reach some stairs; head up the stairs and follow the path; you will soon come to a room, with a skeleton and two doors.

First of all, enter the lower door; you will see a crab, which will probably need to be killed, you will also see a switch, to stop the switch from being barricaded by blocks, head two paces left of the door, and head upwards onto the switch; and the door will finally open. Keep going till you end up at a ladder, which should be outside the tower; if you go up the ladder, you will find a lever, which you should activate, in order to make the platform above lower itself, a little. After activating the lever, you should backtrack to the room with the skeleton.

You've already explored the lower door, so this time you should try going in the upper door; where you will come across some vases and a statue. First of all, move the statue onto the tile in the left part of this room. After the statue is in place, surround it with vases, this will trigger the opening of the lower right door; which you should enter. The next room has some stairs and some monsters, you may find it easier to kill the monsters first, if you head down, you will find a skeleton, and the remains of his friend, who for some reason; appears to come in more than one piece. First off, blow up the shattered pile of bones, and stand on the switch, to make the wall in front of you disappear. After pressing the switch, proceed into the new area with the Goblins, then through the door, and keep on going till you reach another room, with some more monsters.

The next room contains some kind of music puzzle, in this particular area you will need the arrow, bomb and your sword. First of all, you will come across three pillars, you need to use a certain tool on each of the pillars in order to activate them. To activate the lowest pillar, you need to hit it with your sword, this will make the red light on top of it turn blue. The second pillar needs to be hit by an arrow, and the upper pillar needs to be blown up by one of your bombs; soon after the puzzle is completed, the upper door will open.

Inside the door, you will find a blue chest, as well as a monster, which you should dispose of. Inside the blue chest, you will find the Sky Key, this is the key to finding Hilda, so you can probably guess you haven't got long to go, till the showdown with Camu. Anyway, head out of this room, and go back to the room with the pile of bones; this time head down the stairs, and head through the door, and gain all your HP's and MP's on the healing tiles, and I think you had better save your progress too. After healing, you should go through the next door, when you do, destroy the monster, keep on this path; until you finally come to a room with some monsters; in here you will see a door, go through it to enter another room containing a puzzle.

The puzzle is based on a 12 hour clock; First off the block represents the hours and the statue represents the minutes. The time currently shown is 6:15 which doesn't appear to be having any effect on the door in this room. On the clock, you must show two different times, first of all, set the clock onto 12:00; this will reveal a secret door, where you can find a treasure; that is cool, because treasures are very scarce here for some reason. The treasure is a Jute Helmet, which will come in handy for Maxim or Guy; after obtaining the treasure, set the clock to 9:00; this will open the next door, where you will come across what looks like a dead end, but in this room you will come across a switch to activate. After you've activated the switch, you should head back to the room before the clock puzzle, then head outside; out of no where, some ladder has appeared, so you can now get on the top floor of the tower; anyway you might as well head up the ladder, and enter the final room of this tower.

The final room to great surprise has a boss door, which can be unlocked with the Sky Key. When you enter the room you will see Camu, and behind him, you can see Hilda and three chests; by the looks of it, he seems to be prepared with you offering, but right now the chests aren't available for you; so you may want to destroy Camu and come back when you've exited the tower. Anyway; you should, have a little chat with Camu; he explains hes looking for strong men, who appear to be a threat to him. Guy is one of those men he seeks; so you will be drawn into battle!

**Boss:** Camu

**HP:** 1,500HP · **Weakness:** Lightning

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ This is the coolest boss yet, and you probably have Maxim and Guy equipped with the Kukri swords; which have Lightning element IP attacks. So Camu has plenty of HP's, which will take a while to drain; but he does seem to have one major weakness, and that's Lightning. Camu is quite tough if you don't defeat him quickly, he uses standard physical attacks most of the time, as well as Buster attack and Sleep Sting which are used randomly, but not too often; first of all, Camu's Buster attack is the main threat because it can damage all party members. Camu may also call on some slaves, these monsters will cast a low powered healing spell, which would mean their intelligence is very low, considering it only heals 30HP on one enemy. Anyway, to start off the battle, have Maxim and Guy use their Thunder Blast, IP techniques; to do around 400 damage in total, then have Tia cast Flash, to do even more damage, when Maxim and Guy run out of IP; Guy should attack normally, Maxim on the other hand should join Tia by casting the Flash spell; which you may have; when Camu pops his clogs, you will receive a cool 3,000 experience as well as 5000GP; and you also get 100 exp and 250G for each slave you killed during your battle!

When Camu has been defeated, he decides to destroy the tower, with you inside it; so its obvious he wants you to die. The tower will start to rumble, Maxim will try to open the door, but its locked, and he cannot get to it because of some magic barrier. Anyway, it doesn't matter, because Iris comes to save you and she also warps you back to Tanbel.
