<a id="s4-17"></a>

## 4.17. Clamento

**MAIN GOALS** Purchase new Equipment! Purchase the "Escape" Spell! Get some info on the Ruby Apple! Listen to Rochy's short lecture!

Clamento is a nice little village, which seems to have some decent equipment stores, as well as a good shop for buying spells. First of all, you should be talking to people around town, you will stumble among a few people who speak of a treasure called the ruby apple. Anyway, that isn't as important yet, if you check the big house, in the Northern area of Clamento, you will meet some rich dude named Rochy; who is on the look out for warriors to locate the Ruby Apple for him, and on top of this, he's going to give loads of cash to anyone who will find this treasure. Which makes the hunt more sweet for you, as most people listen when cash is involved!

- **After your conversation with Rochy, you should go to the equipment store, and**
  - purchase some new equipment. I highly recommend purchasing some new stuff for
  - Tia; you should by a rod, some baggy clothes and a Red beret, which should be
  - a good selection, and it will all provide, well needed better defense for her
- **too. After buying some new equipment, you should visit the spell shop and buy**
  - the newest spells, or some of the older ones which you don't have, especially
  - the "Escape" spell as its one of the most important spells in the game, its
  - also going to save you 100G everytime you buy an escape potion, but without
  - any MP, you've got some problems. After buying the necessary equipment, you
- **should rest at the inn, and make a save at the church. Then you may proceed**
  - to your next destination, which is Ruby Cave, home of the treasure known as
  - the Ruby Apple.
