<a id="s4-18"></a>

## 4.18. Ruby Cave

**MAIN GOALS** Locate and obtain the Ruby Apple! Find another Capsule Monster (Blaze)! Obtain the Aqua Whip and Fury Helmet! -> Some cool treasures!

Items -> Aqua Whip, Fury Helmet, Flame Fruit, Ruby Key, Ruby Apple

First of all, head North of Clamento till you come to a mountain; which seems to split the area into two different paths. If you take the western path, you will come across a small shrine, which you will need to enter later. So for now, take the eastern path, and you will come to Ruby Cave, which under the Circumstances, must be entered!

Upon entering Ruby Cave, you will notice some Lava, and a dog like monster on a floating platform. To begin with, dispose of the spider and proceed through the very first door; this takes you into a room with some big bees, and you should also notice, some stairs, another door as well as a weak wall; which should be bombed. Through the weak wall, you come to a room with a few more monsters; and some more stairs; from here on you should keep going till you finally reach four switches. The switches must be activated in a certain way; so start with the Upper Left switch; and move clockwise around all the of the switches, but activate each one you pass one by one. After pressing all the switches correctly, proceed by bombing the weak wall nearby, and follow the path to Blaze, your next capsule monster; who seems to breath FIRE!!!

When Blaze Decides to join, feed him with Long Knives, and he should evolve pretty quickly into another monster; but it also seems to possess some better stats; it won't run away as often either, and to be honest, blaze seems to be a little Gutless compared to Foomy; which sadly cannot be helped. After you have found Blaze, you should head back to the second room of this cave, and attack the grass within the room. You should shortly come across a switch; if it gets activated, you may progress into the next room; so I would strongly advise, stamping on the switch. When you get that door opened, head through it and again, hack away at some nearby grass to reveal a switch, the switch you will find reveals some hidden stairs; which will lead you into a volcanic room; with some Goblins inside. In this room, you should kill off the Goblins and use the crate to build a bridge across the lava. The bridge will take you to some bats as well as two staircases.

The Right staircase leads you into a room, with some cool treasures, so take those stairs first. Down the stairs, you will find a whole hoard of monsters which should be killed off before attempting the next puzzle, involving the blocks of Ice. After disposing of the monsters, you should take note of the Ice blocks; if you were to throw one of these into the lava, you would most likely have made eight squares of floating land, which you can actually walk on. This will make it possible to get all the treasures, but to do that, you must use several ice blocks. To obtain the first set of treasures; get hold of an ice block, and place it in the bottom right corner of the platform; on which you currently stand. This will make a small path; and this should only be continued by putting the ice blocks into the proper areas of the lava; in this case, I will tell you. For this little puzzle, keep placing all of the ice blocks in the lower right corner of each platform you make, it won't be long till you find two platforms, and you will also notice that they have an ice block on each one; these are to continue over to the treasures; this is easy, so i'm going to let you work this one out yourself, anyway, after you done that correctly, you will find two treasures, an Aqua Whip as well as a Fury Helmet; the Aqua whip should be equipped on Tia, and I would recommend giving the Fury Helmet to Guy, also, you will find another Ice block on this platform; so take it back to the large platform; and prepare to get hold of another treasure.

Currently, you only have one available chuck of ice to play with; you should be able to find another platform to the left, and it also seems to be a few steps away from the large platform. If you use the Ice Chunk here, you will be able to get hold of another block of ice; after that you should use this Ice Block, so you can now access the treasure to the left; which seems to be a Fire Fruit; including this treasure, you will also find another Ice chunk. After finding the chunk of ice; head back to the large platform once again; but this time go to the right, to find another platform, which seems to have some stairs. When you make it onto the platform, you should follow the path downstairs, until you come to a door; which leads to a room with some tiles for healing as well as a save point. After visiting that small room, go back into the room, with all the ice blocks and fire an arrow at the switch, far left of the northern staircase; this will make the platform to the far left rise, giving you the chance to progress further into the cave.

When the platform rises, head down the nearest staircase and proceed down the left stairs, so you land on the platform that has just risen. On the platform you will find a bat and some more stairs, you might as well kill the bat, as it provides you with an easy kill, because they are so damn weak. When You've killed the bat, you should head down the stairs and kill of the skeleton, in order to gain access to the door behind him; but you must also cut the plants on the wall. Inside the door, you will find the Ruby Key; so you may now head off to the boss room. To reach the boss room, go back up the right staircase; which took you to a room with all those ice blocks, and head for the healing room you found earlier; while your here gain any lost HP and save progress if needed. On the healing room corridor, head left till you reach another door; and make your way over to the boss door by crossing the bridge. Upon entering the boss room you will see what looks to be the Ruby Apple; the treasure that you have been looking for; but no treasure comes cheap, coz a giant tarantula jumps you from above, and thats what your going to fight round about now....!

**Boss:** Tarantula

**HP:** 1,600HP · **Weakness:** Fire

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ This boss is a bit of a push over, if you've got someone equipped with the Fire dagger, and they've got full IP. The IP technique Blaze Attack will be enough to knock 400HP off him in one go, and if you get to do this twice it will surely wound him with ease. This super-sized spider has around 1,600HP and he can do some major damage with his Poison Shower attack; he can also call for help from his allies; which seem to be spiders as well. His normal attacks can cause paralysis, and he also keeps casting "Stronger" as soon as his HP's run low. To make easy work of this spider, use the Fire daggers Ikari technique, which is blaze attack, it should do around 400 damage. Tia should use the Spark spell, so she can do some damage at least, and Guy may need to perform some Ikari techniques as well, the Eagle rocks dive IP tech works good here, if he has no IP just attack normally; when this spider is squashed, you will receive 4000 experience points and 5000GP!

After your "Spider Squashing" experience, Maxim, Tia and Guy notice something odd about the Ruby Apple; it seems to have smashed. Most of you probably know that Ruby is a Hard Rock, and theirs no way it would smash like that; anyway, head into the upcoming door, and speak to the Glass maker. You get to have a short conversation about the Ruby Apple and its Decoy; Maxim comes up with a bright idea, he is going to sell the Ruby Apple Decoy, to Rochy, as for what Maxim will receive in return; I guess that makes him a bit of a crook. Before you can actually sell this apple, you need to get back to Clamento; so allow Tia to work some magic and cast the "Escape" spell to exit the cave!
