<a id="s4-19"></a>

## 4.19. Story Events

**MAIN GOALS** Sell the "FAKE" Ruby apple to Rochy! Give your money to Jaffy at the Glass Store! Watch Maxim give Tia a glass earring! -> Ain't that sweet!

Items -> Ear Jewel

When you arrive back in Clamento, you should head straight for Rochy's House; and claim what hes offering for the Ruby Apple. When you start to talk, Tia will see how much money he is handing over, and will nearly let the cat out of the bag; but luckily Maxim manages to keep her quiet, and Rochy hands over enough money to feed Jabba the Hut for a good few years; that's a lot of dosh I must say. Anyway, when you have the money, you should hand it over to Jaffy and his wife at the Glass Shop; when it comes to handing all that lovely cash over, Jaffy will give you a Glass Earring. When Maxim, Guy and Tia leave this humble little shop; Maxim decides to give Tia the Glass Earring, which will make her so happy that she starts to jump around like a little Girl. Guy will start talking with Maxim, until Tia decides to come back; when she does you get full control of your party once again.

After the events in Clamento; you should be looking for a small shrine, which I mentioned several paragraphs ago. But I'm still going to tell you; so first of all, head out of Clamento and head North till you reach the mountains; the small shrine as you may already know leads to Parcelyte; and you can get to the shrine by taking the western path around the mountain. Upon entering this shrine, you will notice that the gate is now opened, so you are free to enter the warp portal; which will lead you to the village of Parcelyte!
