<a id="s4-2"></a>

## 4.2. The Training Dungeon

**MAIN GOALS** Complete all training tasks! Gain the Reset Spell!

The first lesson is to watch enemy movements, it is known that monsters will only move when you do; because they will feel provoked. Practice sizing up a monster, by using the arrow buttons on your control pad; when your ready, go get that Jelly. Maxim, only has normal attacks, and no spells at this moment in time, but you should win this battle with ease.

> **Remember:** When in a monster saturated room, don't allow the monsters to surround you; or you'll be sorry!

When the instructor has said his piece, follow him into the next room; ready for the second lesson.

The second lesson involves firing arrows to stun enemies, to shoot an arrow, press the "Y" Button on your control pad. Enemies can't draw you into battle when you've stunned them, currently, Maxim only possesses the Skill Arrow. Shoot the arrow at the Jelly to stop its movement for a while, when you've stunned it, you might as well kill it off too.

> **Remember:** Once an enemy is paralyzed by an arrow; you can bump into it, without it drawing you into battle.

Once you've dealt with the Jelly, you can freely progress into the next room; ready for your third lesson.

The third lesson involves firing arrows once again, but this time, the arrows are used to trigger a switch. Inside this room, you will notice a switch near a broken bridge; which needs to be activated. After firing an arrow, into the switch; you will be able to proceed across the bridge, that you've repaired. After crossing the bridge, progress through the door and keep going till the instructor halts you once again.

Lesson four involves moving large obstacles onto switches, which can in most cases, activate them. You can move these obstacles, using the "A" button and Arrow Buttons, on your Controller. You can see a statue, and a switch, which means you can practice, by activating it.

> **Remember:** In certain situations, switches can only be activated by large obstacles; in other words, something heavier than yourself!

After activating the switch, you can now proceed through the door; but as you go through the door, the instructor will halt you. He wants to teach you some spell, which is called the "Reset" spell; this will allow you to set all the obstacles in a room, to their default locations, pretty cool, huh!

That last few things that you need to know, are that you can jump off cliffs; that have arrows on the edge. Which you should do in this room, in order to make it over to the door; soon after that you will come to a room with more than one monster inside. First of all, you must destroy all the monsters; you should do this in a few seconds. Once the monsters are dead and buried; the locked door will open, you can now proceed to your next lesson.

Lesson Five, involves chopping down bushes with your sword; you can sometimes find switches under bushes and tall grass. Inside those bushes, you will find a switch, which will open the door to the next room. To swing your sword, you must press the "B" button; when you've had enough practice, proceed through the door and be prepared for the next lesson.

The sixth lesson, involves throwing obstacles; which can be done by pressing the "A" button. You may pick up items, such as pots and vases; then put them onto switches to activate them. To change your throwing direction, hold the "R" button, and use the arrow buttons to point in the right direction. This will become very useful through the game; so by all means remember what you learnt' in this lesson. Anyway, to complete this task, put the first pot on the right switch, to open a sliding wall. Then grab the other one, and place it on the left switch; the door to the left side of the room will open, and you may safely exit the training dungeon!
