<a id="s4-20"></a>

## 4.20. Parcelyte

**MAIN GOALS** Follow all scenes involving Selan! Upgrade everyones weapons and armour! Purchase some of the older spells! -> From the previous towns! Get Selan to join your party!

Upon entering the village of Parcelyte, you will come across a little lassie named Lemmy; who at the moment is being teased by two idiotic kids. Lemmy is upset and she starts to cry; but suddenly some chick named Selan comes to her rescue. Selan calms her down, and manages to stop her crying; she soon walks off, an explains that shes got duties at the castle. Anyway, when you gain control of Maxim and his friends, you should upgrade your equipment.

The equipment store sells some good stuff, first of all, you should buy some new weapons. The best weapon available right now is the Franshiska; a strong axe that only Guy can equip, you should also get two chain whips and a Chain Mail armour. Maxim should be equipped with the Chain Mail, and Tia should be equipped with a chain whip; as the Aqua whip has a severe weakness to the nearby enemies. After obtaining all the needed equipment; you should head for the castle, to see yet another scene with Selan; this time she's in a fight with one of the soldiers. Selan will win the little battle, and she will enter Parcelyte castle; and the entrance seems to be right in front of your nose, so why not pay a little visit!

Inside the castle, you will find a few people, if you talk to them, you will probably get a little summary on how tough "Commander Selan" is; and that is rather boring. Upon entering; head up the stairs, and follow the path up the steps to the left; to reach the throne room. Inside the Throne room, speak to the King; and agree to go on his little mission; The King will call for his finest soldier, who appears to be that chick who beat that soldier up; in the courtyard of the castle. Selan is one hell of a magic user, but her agility at this moment in time is fairly low; but don't be fooled; she's one cute girl, with a hell load of uses. Still, you may want to warp back to the previous towns, and get her some new spells; such as "Gale" and "Droplet"!

The mission that stands before you, involves locating a treasure, which seems to be called the Treasure Sword. In this mission, Selan must cooperate, under another leaders command; which is a little bit of a Hard Task for her; as she does everything under her own will. She cooperates; but only as a fighter, it is after all, hard to trust someone who you don't know anything about. If you have some new equipment for Selan; like a Chain Whip or a Tight Dress, then now is the time to equip her for battle; she will start out at Level 16; in this case, you should have a team, around level 20-22, so she will need a few minutes of battling to gain some levels. When your all set, you should move out to the Treasure Sword Shrine; to the North of Parcelyte.
