<a id="s4-21"></a>

## 4.21. Treasure Sword Shrine

**MAIN GOALS** Obtain the Treasure Sword! Obtain the Undead Ring! -> INCREASES MGR by 25!!! Defeat the Invincible Clowns! -> EASY!!! Obtain the Sword Key!

Items -> Undead Ring, Sword Key, Cold Rapier, Anger Brace, Round Shield, Bat Rock, Treasure Sword

Upon entering the first room, you will come across three doors. It seems the middle door is locked; and can only be opened by the Sword Key; which can be obtained in this tower. First of all, head through the door to the right; and kill off all the monsters in the upcoming room. From here, you should go through the next door, and up the nearest staircase, which you will see right in front of your nose. The stairs lead into another room with more monsters; as well as a nice collection of treasures, which can be obtained by solving a small puzzle. To make the upcoming puzzle easier, you may want to dispose of the monsters; which seem to be in your way. This is one of the hardest of all the puzzles in the game; so please, do me and you a favor, and understand my rambling on, if its in the language you desire.

First of all, this puzzle involves four moving platforms; by walking onto a platform, you will activate it, and it will move in a certain direction; but when a moving platform hits another platform, it will simply stop moving. If it stops moving, it will mean that you may access another platform, which in some instances may have a chest onboard. Anyway, I will explain how to get all four chests; and you may have already guessed that one of these chests contains the Sword Key!

-> UNDEAD RING!!! <-

This one is easy to obtain, just walk on the nearest platform to the stairs and watch as it takes you to the first treasure; which in this case, is a valuable, Undead Ring, which you should equip on Maxim or Guy, because of their low Magic Resistance or "MGR" in the terms of the status screen!

-> COLD RAPIER!!! <-

Again, by starting on the platform near the stairs, you will find a chest, with no treasure as you've already taken the contents. But this time, jump onto the next moving platform, and use the remaining platforms to guide you back to the stairs. Your next move is to step on the second nearest platform to the stairs; if your were to stand on this platform, you would be able to get to another chest, which contains a Cold Rapier; which should not be equipped, YET!

-> TWO MORE CHESTS!! <-

The last two chests are the hardest to obtain, but if you think a little, they are possible to reach. First of all, you should have already obtained the other treasures, so you should hopefully be on the platform with a chest, which will formally have contained a Cold Rapier, which I told you not to equip. When you get the chance, head upwards, then left, and the downwards; until you come to a choice between a normal platform and a moving platform. In this case, you will need to keep on moving, so head right and then upwards to reach the next still platform, once again you will find yourself back at the stairs. Again use what I would call the second nearest, moving platform to the stairs, and then keep going till you finally reach the last two treasures, which are, the Sword Key and the Anger Brace!

After obtaining all the treasures, in particular the Sword Key, you should go back to the first room of the shrine; where you seen a locked door. After you have arrived, you should ignore the locked door and head through the left one instead; when you enter, you will see another door, if you want to get to it with ease and gain some experience points, then you should dispose of all the monsters in this small room. Upon entering the next room, you will notice a switch and a staircase, and if you look around for a while longer; you should find a vase. The puzzle is so hard that only a real brain box can do this; so solve the rock solid puzzle, by putting the vase on the switch; by lifting it of course; the switch will make the spikes fall; and you can then blow up the weak wall, and proceed into the next room. The next room has a weak floor, in this situation, you need to fall through the floor boards, so why not have a good laugh, and "Fall Through the Floor boards"!

Upon falling down the hole, you should head through the next door; inside the next room, you should open the chest to find a Round Shield; and head through the next door. When you arrive in the next room, you will come across some blocks; if you push these out of your way; you will notice that this room is very familiar; and you will also notice a staircase, which will lead you back on track to the first room; the one with the Locked door, which you will need to open, round about now.

Behind the locked door, you will be welcomed by what looks to be a Red Carpet and a small collection of statues. If you follow the Red Carpet you will soon come to a door, but you will most likely have a few battles first; when you reach the door, it should be entered in order to continue. The upcoming room seems to have some stairs; to save time, i'm going to just tell you to keep going till you come to a room with some monsters as its a one way track from here. When you do reach the monsters, you should kill them and proceed into the next room. The next room has four switches as well as a moving platform inside; it's a small puzzle, so I have decided to give each lever a number; so you know which one's which!

The numbers are from 1-4....

NO 1 = Upper Left Switch NO 2 = Lower Left Switch NO 3 = Upper Right Switch NO 4 = Lower Right Switch

First of all, you need to reach the treasure room, the order in which these switches must be pressed, is as follows... 2 - 1 - 2 - 1 - 2

When the switches are pressed in that order, you will be able to reach the small platform, with a door; through the door a chest lies, so you may now grab another treasure for your not so humble collection; its no other than a rare, Bat Rock, which can be sold for 9,000GP when you escape this tower and head back to Parcelyte. After obtaining the treasure, you should go to the previous room with the four switches, your first task is to get on the Platform with switches 1 and 2, which shouldn't be too hard. The next task is a little harder, but not impossible, you must now press the switches in this order.... 2 - 1 - 2 - 1 - 2 - 1 - 2 - 1

When the switches are pressed in the right order, you should be able to reach switches 3 and 4; which will be used to gain access to the final door leading out of this room. When you reach the switches, you must press them in this order.... 4 - 3 - 3 - 4

After solving the switch puzzle, you may now chill out and head into the next room; which contains a Ghoul and yet another door. Through the door, you will find a staircase; as well as another door. First of all, you won't need to go through the door, because it has nothing of interest inside; Its just there to fool you for some reason. Anyway, if you head down the stairs, you should find a door leading to another puzzle room; this time its about blowing up a few crates; which will lead you into crossing a nearby bridge. If you want to solve this puzzle, you will need to be quick; first of all, you need to place a bomb near each crate; then you need to jump on the bridge; and you may want to take note that this part of the puzzle, must be done within six steps; If you by any chance, manage to screw up, you should just cast the "Reset" Spell and start again. If you solved the puzzle, then you are now obliged to head through the next door; but when you do so, you may notice a few empty rooms. Its just a little dull and boring, but you will soon come to a room, which is saturated with monsters, so you can do some serious fighting. After Killing all the monsters, you may head into the upcoming room, where you get to solve another Puzzle...As if you would never have guessed!

Inside the next three rooms, you will have to solve various puzzles, which will be rather tricky in some cases; but I am going to give you the solutions in the form of ascii diagrams, which should help you a great deal; anyway, you should check below for the answers;-

Puzzle one -=-=-=-=-= This is too easy, all you need to do is move the Left yellow block to the right of the two red blocks, and this will cause all the blocks to change their colour to yellow; check the diagram below for more details...!

<!-- MIXED -->

M->| Y | Y | R | R | *

Puzzle Two -=-=-=-=-= In the next room, you are allowed to move one yellow block, and one red block to make every block change to yellow. First of all, you need to start with a Red Block; so pick up the Red Block on the bottom row, then move it between the Red and Yellow blocks where i've put a * (On the Ascii Diagram)!

<!-- MIXED -->

-----

| Y |

| R |

--------- -----------------

| Y | R | * | Y | R | Y |

--------- -----------------

| Y | R | <- M

To finish solving the puzzle, you must first pickup the Yellow block on the bottom row, and move it between the two red blocks on the next row up; this will make all the blocks change to yellow, and it will also solve the puzzle, so you can now continue into the next room.

<!-- MIXED -->

-----

| Y |

| R |

--------- -----------------

| Y | R | * | R | Y | R | Y |

--------- -----------------

| Y | <- M

-----

Puzzle Three (The Big One!) -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=- This is by far the hardest of the three puzzles, but this time you can move one red block and two yellow blocks, but each block must be changed to yellow in order to proceed into the next room. First of all, grab the yellow block from the top row, and place it to the right of the red blocks, which can be found on the bottom row, which i've marked with a * (On the Ascii Diagram)!

<!-- MIXED -->

----- -----

| R | | Y | <- M

| R | R | R |

| Y | R | R | *

Next, you will need to move the red block in the middle of the second row. It needs to be moved, one space above its original position; but this time, none of the blocks will change colour, but not to worry, the last move will turn everyone of the blocks yellow.

<!-- MIXED -->

M

----- | | R | V

| R | R | R |

| Y | Y | Y | Y |

Last of all, you must pick up the second block from the right, on the bottom row; and place it above the two red blocks on the left column. This will turn all the blocks yellow, and you will be able to get through the next door....!

<!-- MIXED -->

| R | R |

| R | | R |

| Y | Y | Y | Y |

After solving all the puzzles, and soon after you enter the door after Puzzle Three, you will find some healing pads as well as a save point; which you may want to use before attempting the boss of this shrine. From here, you should keep going through doors until you come to the boss door, where Maxim and his friends will meet some weird clowns named "Pierre" and "Daniele", which will appear when you attempt to open the next boss door in the boss room. First of all, you must take them both out using your party of four allies; after you defeat each of the two clowns once, Selan will finally come up with a little strategy; which will actually work. The clowns are so easy to defeat, that I will only give a boss strategy for when you stuff them for the second time. Now would be a good time to equip your characters with certain IP equipment; to make this boss easier; so equip each of your characters with the weapons I have stated below.....

MAXIM -> Cold Rapier -> Its IP attack does 3 times normal damage, and the clown which Maxim and Tia will fight, is vulnerable to Ice elemental attacks. Which means it can do six times normal damage to Pierre!!

TIA -> ..Aqua Whip -> Its IP attack does 3 times normal damage, and the clown which Maxim and Tia will fight, is vulnerable to Water elemental attacks. Which means it does six times normal damage to Pierre!!

GUY -> Fire Dagger -> Its IP attack does 3 times normal damage, and the clown which Selan and Guy will fight, is vulnerable to Fire elemental attacks. This means it can do six times normal damage to Daniele!

SELAN -> ........... -> Its no use equipping Selan with any IP weapons for this battle, as shes your strongest magic user, and she knows a fire element spell, which can do light damage (140-160 damage)!

The first clown on your Hit List is Pierre, and you will have to destroy it

using Maxim and Tia. Remember to equip your Cold Rapier on Maxim and the Aqua whip on Tia; without those items you will have to rely solely on your water and Ice magic, which both Maxim and Tia can use. The second battle is harder, as Selan has no IP weapon, but she will be able to sort her foe out with some fire magic; and shes always there for healing, so lets begin!!!

**Boss:** Pierre

**HP:** 1,200HP · **Weakness:** Water & Ice

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ This battle is too easy, because Pierre can't really do enough damage to kill you off quickly. He uses level 2 magic spells such as Bolt and Fireball, of which none of them really hurt; he also does a pose technique, which is known as his Ha, Ha, Ha attack; and again it is no threat, as this technique cannot even be called an attack. When it comes to kicking his butt, you should start this battle off with some Ikari Techniques such as "Glacial Blast" and "Aqua Attack" which combined will do 800-1000 damage in one round of attacking. If your low on IP after that, all you need to do is attack with some spells such as "Droplet" and "Gale". Soon after the battle you will need to fight another boss, which is Pierre's mate, who seems to be called "Daniele"; Plus you will also gain 2,300 experience points and 4,000GP!!!

**Boss:** Daniele

**HP:** 1,200HP · **Weakness:** Fire & Lightning

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ This battle is slightly harder than Pierre, as Selan doesn't have a weapon to do any Major Fire Damage, but on the other side, Guy makes up for that, while having a slightly higher strength advantage over Maxim. Daniele uses "Vortex" and "Blizzard" which are level 2 magic spells; that will do small amounts of damage to Selan and Guy. He also seems to attack normally; which tends to be effective on the ladies, in this case its Selan. To win this battle, you need to start off by doing some major damage, so have Guy use his "Blaze Attack" Ikari technique, and have Selan follow with a blast of the "Spark" Spell, to do around 700-800 damage on the whole. After Guy uses up his IP; you should make him attack normally and have Selan cast Spark once again, if Daniele's still living then attack him normally once again with Guy, or use the Spark Spell, and he's finished. After a short battle, you will receive 2,300 Exp & 4,000GP, and you will also have the pleasure of watching Selan get flattered by Maxim and his friends.

Before casting the "Escape" spell, you may actually want to obtain the item that you came for. Not that you have to worry about this, as Maxim and his friends, will actually get the treasure sword for you; leaving you with the only job left to do; which is escaping the shrine via the "Escape" spell.
