<a id="s4-22"></a>

## 4.22. Story Events

**MAIN GOALS** Report you success to the King! Obtain your reward inside the Basement! Make tracks for Gordovan!

Items -> Holy Wings

After obtaining the Treasure Sword; and escaping the Shrine to the North; you must head back to Parcelyte Castle. When you enter, you should go straight to the Throne room; where the King awaits your presence. When you speak with the King, he mentions something about a reward; and suddenly a soldier barges in; while baring news of a disaster which has just taken place in the city of Gordovan. It seems that some dude has lets just say, completely demolished the town; and has been wrecking havoc on the homes of many innocent people. Still, the people won't need to worry for much longer, as Selan is willing to look into this problem. Maxim has also decided to help her out; so Maxim will go with Selan; with Tia and Guy right behind him. Also, Selan will let slip the fact, that shes starting to trust Maxim; and you may drag your party off to Gordovan, but first of all, why not get your reward from the basement of the castle; and believe me, this treasure is well worth your trouble.

When you reach the basement of the castle, you will meet up with the treasure room guard; who seems to have been guarding the treasure for a long period of time. After putting the poor guy out of his misery, by taking the contents of the chest; you will get some Holy Wings, which should be equipped on Selan or Tia. It may be a good idea to give Tia this armour, because she appears to have the weaker defense, and she could use some new armour. When you've taken your reward, you should purchase any essential items and weapons at the shops of Parcelyte Village, then you should head for the western direction, where you will soon come to the shrine leading to Gordovan.

Upon entering the shrine, you will come across a warp portal; which will lead you across what seems to be a small river between the two land masses. On the western continent, you should be able to reach Gordovan; and when you finally come to the town; your in for quite a surprise!
