<a id="s4-24"></a>

## 4.24. Gordovan Tower

**MAIN GOALS** Obtain the Hook! (Hookshot from Zelda?) Defeat the Sinistral of Destruction *GADES*! -> Hard!

Items -> Hook, Eagle Rock, Speed Potion, Miracle, Wind Key, Gades Sword???, Scimitar, Block Shield

Upon entering the tower, you will come across some monsters, you should also notice two doors; one of which is locked. The first door for you to enter in this case, is the left door; which can be found far left of the entrance. Inside the next room, you will be battled by a simple puzzle, to open the upper left door, you must get the caged monster to stand on the switch; and under the circumstances, this may be pretty tough; but it is possible. This monster moves a lot, so when he does stand on the switch, you should stun him with an arrow; so the poor beggar will be paralyzed for a few seconds. While the monster is stunned, you can slip through the upper left door, and proceed into the next chamber of Gordovan's western tower.

The next room has some stairs to reach the next floor, so head up the stairs and then proceed through the southern door inside the room which follows. The next room contains a small puzzle, but to start off, you must hit the switch with your sword. After activating the switch, the red barrier will fall; so you may now access the blocks, which can be moved around. First of all, this should be an easy puzzle, so first of all, you must move the block located, left of the lower tile; one pace to the right. Secondly, you need to move the upper block, one pace to the right too; leaving you with a small gap; so you can now move the first block to the south, and if you've done this right, the switch should be on the lowest part of the cross. Last of all, you must hit the switch with an arrow, in order to get rid of the blue barrier; first of all, you must NOT stand on any tiles; so if you were to head two paces to the left and two pace upwards, you should be in an O.K position; providing you've turned to the left direction; when you get the chance, fire an arrow, so that it lands on the switch, causing the blue barrier to fall.

When the blue barrier falls, you can now access a nearby switch; in this case the switch can be activated by your bare hands, and for some pointless reason we have another colour changing switch nearby. When you activate the standard switch, or lever style switch, the corridor outside of this tower will fall; leaving you with the easy task of crossing the bridge; but first of all, you must head outside, so proceed through the upcoming door, and then through the door which follows. The next note worthy area, contains an Orc monster as well as another door; if you were to fight the Orc, you would come across some "Fighter Orc" monsters, which can do some serious damage when they fell the need to harm you. I would just ignore the Orc, and head into the upcoming room, to find some stairs and another door. If you head into the door, you will come to what seems to be the elevator hall; where no elevator currently exists, or at least not on this floor. So your only option is to take the stairs, and solve the puzzle in the upcoming room.

The puzzle involves, two switches and a vase; first of all, you must enter the door to the right; and that can only be done by solving the puzzle. To begin with, pick up the vase, and place it on the right switch; then follow the floor tiles until you finally come the door which you desire to enter; in this case, its the door to the right. Inside the room which follows, you will come to a staircase, as well as some evil shell monsters; up the stairs you will find some statues and an accessible door, so enter the door, and take the treasure from the blue chest, which just happens to be the Hook; just like in Zelda, this tool is used for grappling onto things. After you receive this treasure, head back to the statues in the previous room, and make your way across to the northern door, but remember the move the nearby statue, one pace to the right. Through the next door, you will find another staircase and some more monsters, which in most respects, shouldn't prove to be too much of a problem.

If you were to head up the stairs, you would be on the highest floor of this tower; and you would have access to the elevator, so you could collect some treasures; so first of all, lets go to the elevator room; to reach that room you should take the lower right door; which shouldn't be too hard to find. Through the door, you will find a locked door, and what looks to be a normal door; you would probably suspect that the locked door leads to the elevator room. But it turns out that the normal door will take you there, so first of all, head into the elevator room; and step on the switch; and have fun while you browse the floors of this tower during your little treasure hunt.

-> 1ST FLOOR <-

If you elevated yourself to the first floor, you will have what seems to be three paths from the elevation room. To begin the hunt, you should take the upper path; and blow up the weak wall, using one of your bombs; through the wall, you will find a Doben monster; and at the end of the hallway, you will come across a chest containing an eagle rock. After obtaining that treasure; you should head back to the elevation room, so you can now press the switch, and proceed to the second floor.

-> 2ND FLOOR <-

The only valid path on the second floor, is the lower path; you must simply head through the southern door, and collect the treasure; which is a valuable speed potion. You should probably use the speed potion on Guy or Maxim; you might want to use this potion on Guy, as he is really slow, and he is also with you throughout the game; yes, using such a potion on Guy would no be regretful. When you've used the speed potion, you should head back to the elevation room, and then proceed to the fourth floor.

-> 4TH FLOOR <-

Like the Second Floor, their is only one valid path; but you only have one choice in which path to take, because it seems that only one path exists on this floor. So, take the southern path and head through the door. You will come to a room with a red chest; and it appears to contain a Miracle, which you may need to keep for later in the game. As soon as you've grabbed the treasure, you will find nothing else to do; so you should make your way to the third floor, via the process of elevation!

-> 3RD FLOOR <-

Well, this floor is sort of where you get off the elevator; so you need to read the next paragraph in order to continue. Its basically like this, you have two paths, and the left path in this case, is the valid path; as the right path, just leads you back to one of the rooms which you entered much earlier; so take the left path, and proceed through the upcoming door, and solve the puzzle in the next chamber of this tower!

The puzzle involves two statues, and right now, only one of these statues is movable. Okay, you must start with the movable statue, and it needs to be moved two paces to the left; which means it can be grabbed by the Hook from the opposite side. Grab the statue with the hook, and move the lower statue one pace to the south. After moving the statue in the desired place, it may strike your mind to move the first statue, out of the way, so you can get off that small platform. Last of all, you need to hook onto the lower statue, and push it upwards, in order to keep the switch pressed. This will also open the next door, which you should enter, in order to continue.

Upon entering the door, you will meet up with some monsters; which should be ignored, unless you need to gain some more experience. If you keep going you will soon come to another door, leading outside. When your outside, you will notice a ladder; which needs to be climbed to reach another room containing a puzzle, which can be solved with ease; simply activate the switches from left to right in this order...1 - 5 - 6 - 2 - 7 - 3 - 4. That combination should get rid of the invincible monster barricading the door; so you may now grab the Wind Key; also included in this room, are some stairs, which lead you to the elevation room, but you will need some assistance from the Hook skill. When you reach the elevation room, it would be a good idea to elevate to the fifth floor, as you can now use the boss door; and you will get closer to your "ENCOUNTER" with Gades, the Sinistral of destruction!

When you've reached the Final Floor, via the process of elevation; you should take the left path; to discover a door. Through the door, you will be battled by a puzzle, where you must place a bomb near a box, while moving out of the spike enclosed area. After taking six steps; the bomb will indeed explode, so you can now make your way through the southern door. Through that particular door, you will find a lever; which should be activated, so you can make what seems to be an adjustable ladder, grow a few inches. The ladder is at its true height; so head back to the elevation room, and take the Right Path. You should come to a door pretty soon, Through the door, you will find the Boss Room, which is currently locked; but with your newly acquired; Wind Key, the door can now be unlocked!

Its Ironic that the first room leading to Gades, is no other than a small area, with the presence of only one monster. If you wish to continue, you must head through the southern exit; where you will find the ladder; which has currently grown a few inches. Its now time for the big showdown, with no other than a sinistral named GADES. To find this dude; you must head up the ladder, and then through the door which follows. Gades will be waiting near the second boss door; so why not have a little fight with him; and he will introduce himself, so yes, you will get to know who this giant is. You will probably lose this battle, so don't get your hopes up. I will try my best to defeat this guy; so I may not be able to write a boss strategy; I think you would stand a chance, if you were at around Level 30-35, but thats just one of my Humble suggestions!

```
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  # Sinistral Boss: GADES #  HP: ????         Weakness: ????
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
```

¥ Gades is the Sinistral of destruction; he can use two devastating attacks and these tend to be his "Destructo Wave" and "Devastation" techniques, both of those attacks will wreck havoc on your party, because of your lack of Defense and Magic Resistance. The main key to winning this battle, has to be speed and choice equipment; let's begin with the "Jet Helm" it uses an IP Technique called "Sluggish" which lowers your enemies speed, in particular this will help against Gades. You should also have some strong healing spells, so if you use the "Mind Ring" you can cast an unaccessible healing spell called "Stronger" and if this is equipped on Selan, she will gain enough IP to perform this spell for every turn; and it's in your interest to keep all allies alive just incase something goes wrong. Now, it's time for a small strategy, I have derived this from the ideas given at the Gamefaqs message boards...most people on that board are very helpful; warlock even sent me an e-mail to explain what he would do in this battle.

Now! Have Selan equipped with the Mind Ring, and make sure Guy and Maxim both have Eagle Rock's in their Jewel slots; and someone has to have a Jet Helm; I would give that item to Guy because he's got the most HP's. Let's begin with the Sluggish IP technique to slow down Gades, and make sure Selan uses the "Stronger" spell to heal the whole team...start using some spells to increase your Agility, Fake would do nicely if it gets used on the whole team; and be prepared for some Killer attacks, repeat the simple strategy, and after a few 10 minute intervals, you should have defeated Gades!

If Gades was humiliated by you, then you can use the newly acquired "Gades" Sword to up Guy's attack power. The sword is very strong, and will probably not be replaceable until later. After your encounter with the true powers of Gades, Iris will come to your rescue. Soon after she restores your party to breathing status, she will make her self scarce, so I guess Maxim and co are on their own again. Before you leave the tower; you should grab all the treasures from the locked room to the North; inside you will find 2 chests which contain a Block Shield and a Scimitar. You've taken the last of the treasure, so lets get out of here, first of all, cast the escape spell, to land outside the tower, next cast the "WARP" spell, so you can reach Selan's Home town on the Fly; which is um....PARCELYTE!!!!!
