<a id="s4-25"></a>

## 4.25. Parcelyte

**MAIN GOALS** Report your "BAD" news to the King! Sign up for another mission! Obtain some bonus treasures!

Items -> Water Jewel, Dragon Egg

When you arrive in Parcelyte once again, you should head straight for the castle throne room; where you can explain all problems to the King. He will be a little surprised at your loss, but he won't hesitate to allow Selan go after Gades, once again. Soon after Selan's announcement; a messenger comes with some bad news for a man named GUY. It seems that his sister, Hilda has taken ill and she wants him by her bedside; so he can watch her suffer. Guy decides to leave your party, and Maxim will be rather pushy about the whole situation, on top of this he will also ask for Selan's help; so you will be down to three party members. Still, you are starting to gain Selan's Trust; although, she doesn't completely Trust you, yet...!

While you've got the Hook skill, you might as well get your hands on some bonus treasures. First of all, warp back to Alunze and enter the basement of the castle; you should have noticed a chest which you couldn't reach. If you find the chest, you will find a water jewel; that can increase your INT stat by 20 points as well as a few other things. I highly recommend you give this Jewel to either Selan or Tia; and the Maxim when Tia leaves your party later in the game.

To Obtain the second treasure, you need to warp all the way back to Elcid; while your here, you might as well stock up on some low level potions and antidotes from Tia's Weapon store. The treasure can be located in the cave to Sundletan; when you enter, head across the bridge, and keep going till you reach a room with two pots and a Mushroom; you should remember that a switch is hidden under the three bushes to the right. You should also know that this switch can be activated with the weight of a pot; when the door opens, by all means enter and kill the two moths. You will come across two more doors, and the one to the right is the door leading to the treasure. Inside that particular door, you will come across some pillars, which can be grabbed with the Hook skill; so hook onto the northern pillar and grab the Dragon Egg from the room which follows. When you've finally collected the second of eight Dragon Eggs; you should head for Merix Village.

Okay, you thought you had finished at Gordovan's Tower, but it seems within the walls of that building, you will find the path to Merix Village. To begin with, you need to head through the locked door, and then over to the mushroom in the next room. Fight the monster, and take advantage of the fallen pillars right in front of you; in other words, head through the next door, and head North, until you reach a small village called Merix!
