<a id="s4-27"></a>

## 4.27. Northern Cave

**MAIN GOALS** Destroy the Nest of Monsters! Get the Bridge repaired!

Items -> Regain, Hi-Magic

Upon entering the cave, head down the staircase to the right; and through the door which follows. Inside the next room, you should find another door, and a weak wall; to begin with, you should obtain the Regain potion from the small room behind the door. Then to continue on your desired path, you should blow up the weak wall, after trimming the bushes blocking your way. After blowing up the wall, you will find a switch; which should be activated; when you have activated the switch, you should backtrack to the second room of the cave; in this case its the room, before the previous room. When you arrive, you should notice an extra pillar; so you can now reach the other side of the room.

When you reach the Northern area of the room; you should continue through the upcoming door; and keep on going till you reach a decent sized room with two doors. Through the door to the right; you will find a Hi-Magic potion; which is a small yet valuable treasure. The door to the left leads you to an empty room; but it is rather strange, it seems you have come to a dead end. Tia has decided to walk about carelessly; and has fallen into a hole, Selan will jump down after her, and she will take care of an attacking monster. Maxim scolds Selan for been careless, and out of pure irony; Selan falls down a pit; and to your amazement; Maxim is the first to jump down after her. Selan had won the argument; and Tia has a nasty little thought, because shes jealous of Selan and Maxim, showing signs of affection to each other; or so she thinks!

After the short scene, you can finally go through the upcoming door; which is a monster saturated room. The task provided, involves breaking the Glass Orb with your sword; this turns out to be rather easy; as you should only need to fight one monster while crossing the ranks. After smashing the Orb; you might as well head through the final door; and head down a few flights of stairs. When you reach the 1st floor; the bloke you ignored earlier will notice you; as well as noticing you, he will notice the absence of the monsters inside the cave. The bloke repairs the bridge, and goes back to Merix village, to be with his "PRECIOUS" daughter. If you desire another treasure for your small collection; then now is a good time to head for Merix Village, once again, it is indeed optional; but it is needed if you wish to have a fight with the Egg Dragon later in the game!
