<a id="s4-29"></a>

## 4.29. Bound Kingdom

**MAIN GOALS** Meet up with a bloke named Dekar! Talk to the King; and follow Alex! Please! Stock up on new equipment!

Upon entering the castle of the Bound Kingdom; you will come across a bloke named Idura; who has decided to cause a commotion. The defender will come and put an end to the problem, by destroying Idura's Monsters. The warrior does indeed have a punk hairdo; and incredible strength; but his intelligence is a different story. Dekar is as dumb as can be, if you need some proof of this then watch the scene with Idura; watch how this guy has no common sense; and be amazed by his strength as he takes down those monsters. After taking out the monsters; the Prince comes and he destroys the only monster left in the grounds of this castle; the monster is no other than a "Red Jelly", and you might want to laugh at this fight even though the prince does actually win.

The prince will go into the castle, and Maxim confronts Dekar; and they have an interesting conversation; where Dekar challenges Maxim to a duel; and the punk guy decides to flirt with Selan a little. After the conversation; Dekar will also retreat into the castle, and you will have the chance to do some seriously needed shopping, for some new weapons and armours; as well as the odd few items here and there. When it comes to shopping, I would recommend the Bronze Sword for Maxim; and a staff for Tia, and perhaps Selan may need to equip a Scimitar. Last of all; you may want to purchase a Chain Armor for Maxim, as he could use some extra defense power.

After your little shopping trip, you should head for the Throne room. Inside you should hear some news about the whereabouts of Idura; and Prince Alex is so brave, that he has decided to take on the mission himself; Dekar will try to talk the prince out of it, but it seems that the prince wants Idura's blood. Well, Dekar is obviously going to follow the prince, which means that both of them are in big trouble; after all, this Idura character is no wimp! This leaves you with only one option; you should follow Dekar and Alex to the North Labyrinth. Before leaving the castle, rest at the Inn, to restore your health. When your fit and healthy; you should head North; until you come to a cave, known as the North Labyrinth.
