<a id="s4-30"></a>

## 4.30. North Labyrinth

**MAIN GOALS** Locate "Shaggy" the Capsule Monster! Take on Idura's Monsters! Catch up with Alex and Dekar!

Items -> Thunder Ring, Deadly Sword, Thunder Ax, Dragon Egg, Life Potion

Loads of monsters are roaming in this place, but your main goal is to help Alex and Dekar, in their battle against Idura. The mission begins with the choice of three doors, so first of all, you should enter the door to your right. Through the upcoming door, you will find a staircase, and some bushes which need trimming; if you hug the wall to the left, you will find a hidden passage which leads you to a Thunder Ring. Down the stairs, is more bushes and another monster; so cut down the bushes in order to reveal a switch; the switch will open the southern door, and you might as well kill the monster while your here. To continue; bring out the Hook, and grab the pillar to the left side of the room, then proceed through the door which follows. The room which follows has a small puzzle, you need to fire an arrow at the switch so the spikes will warp to the southern area of the room. This is easy, and you won't need my help with this one; so complete this little puzzle, but make sure that you are in a position to go back the way you came.

After the small puzzle, you should backtrack to the first room; and take the middle door this time. Inside, you will come across a Zombie as well as what seems to be another door; and through that particular door, you will find a staircase leading you into the small room, where you previously hit a switch with an arrow, but the only difference is the fact that, you are now standing inside the Northern area of the room. Through the door which follows, you can see a lever switch and another door; so you should now pull the lever, then enter the northern door, so you get the chance to fight another monster; in the room which follows; you are welcomed to take another treasure, which is called a "Deadly Sword", and cannot be unequiped unless you uncurse the damn thing. After taking the sword, you must head back to the right door in the first room, once again. When you arrive, you must head into the southern area of the switch room, where the spikes are blocking your path; again, you need to fire an arrow at the switch; this will make the spike disappear and you can now reach the next room, which can be accessed via the door to the left of the room. When you enter the next room; you will notice a bridge, if you cross that particular bridge, a door will be right in front of you; through the door you will find a zombie and a weak wall, blow up the wall and take the Thunder Ax within the room which follows.

After taking the Thunder Ax; you should once again head back to the first room of the Labyrinth. This time you must head through the unexplored door to the left of the room, when you enter, you should keep going till you reach a room with a moving staircase. This is another puzzle, as the staircase moves away from you, everytime you try to enter the lousy thing. All you have to do here is trap the staircase; and that can be done if you try to constantly enter the staircase from its left four times. When the staircase is trapped; you should enter and dispose of the sand gorem within the room which follows. The door in this room leads you into an area, with another small puzzle, this time it involves a pillar and a vase. This is easy, all you have to do is move the pillar to the right, deal out the hook and grab the pillar; then place a vase on a switch which you are currently standing on; and last of all move the pillar to the left so you can reach the next door, leading you a tad further into this dungeon.

When you've entered the next door, you are most likely going to fight four deadly swords, these are quite tough, but they drop bag loads of experience points once defeated. After killing the monsters here; you are welcomed to continue, so why not go down the stairs which follow. The main surprise in this area is the monsters, but it you should really fight them all, if you don't want to then try to avoid them; and head through the next door into a strange puzzle room. This is one of the tougher puzzles in my opinion; but you should be able to cope. First off, you have some moving platforms, each one of these platforms has some arrows pointing in the directions, North, South, East and West.

To reach the upper right room, head for the center platform on the top row; and step on the arrow pointing to the eastern direction. When you're on the desired platform, head through the door, and move all the pillars onto some tiles so you can obtain the Dragon egg from the chest to the right. When you have the treasure, head back to the room with those moving tiles and keep on heading South, you should be moved onto the lower right platform this time; go through the door to find some more pillars and use the Hook to reach your next capsule monster. This monster is called "SHAGGY" and I would consider this one to be the weakest monster of all, in terms of Capsule monsters. The good thing about this monster, is the fact it can heal your party, but that is no excuse for its low attacking power. When you have obtained the monster you should once again head back to the moving tiles room, but this time you are advised to cast the reset spell!

The last puzzle is what I would call complicated, so it would be a good idea to follow my instructions; I am going to do them in a list form to help you even more, and to save me from writing a meaningless paragraph, that is too complicated for even myself to understand....!

1.) To begin, head east on the first platform. 2.) Skip the platform to the North and head east once again. 3.) Head South on the next platform. 4.) Skip the next platform and head North. 5.) Head South on the next platform. 6.) Skip the next platform and head North. 7.) Head East and then onto the platform with three arrows 8.) On the triple arrow platform, head North, and then west; so you can finally reach the last of the doors in this room!

Upon successfully completing the puzzle, you are obliged to enter the next door; which takes you into a room with another puzzle. Which to be honest is starting to bore me; anyway, the puzzle involves your bombs; so I suggest you bring them out, so you can crack this puzzle as soon as possible. First of all, think of the tiles in as compass points; like this...!!!

<!-- MIXED -->

|N'W| N |N'E| Can you see what I mean?

| W | * | E | By the way, I must say that the * tile is known as the

**center tile during my solution for this puzzle!**

|S'W| S |S'E|

Okay, to solve this puzzle, place bombs on the tiles in the same order as they are mentioned in this solution:- EAST - N.EAST - CENTRE - N.WEST - and last of all, S.EAST.

After solving the puzzle, head across the bridge to your left, and grab the Life Potion from the chest. You ought to use the potion on Maxim, as he is in need of extra HP; even though he has more than Selan and Tia. When your happy with the state of the room; head down the stairs, and through the door which follows, leading you into another area, containing a save point. It is essential that you save the game after coming so far, so do just that, and proceed through the door which follows. The final puzzle room, contains some switches and a statue, to gain access to the eastern door; you must move the statue onto the eastern switch; when your done, walk through the door, and meet up with Dekar and Alex. The only problem is that you get trapped by the guy whom you were chasing; IDURA! Still, he has prepared some monsters for you to fight, so lets begin???

**Boss:** 4 × Mummy · **HP:** 150 each!

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Lets have some fun! You are going to fight 4 mummies, and I think they have around 150 HP each. They seem to be weak against fire, so cast "Fireball" on all of them twice and their history; still these guys may have got a couple of hits in before Selan is able to attack! And you prize is 400 exp. and 2000GP; not great but at least you go something!!!

You won that easy huh! Well heres some more......

**Boss:** 3 × Troll · **HP:** 250 each!

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Lets have some more fun! You are going to take out 3 trolls this time, and they have 250 HP each. They are also weak against fire, and two or three rounds of the "Fireball" spell will most likely kill them. Once again, not much of a boss battle, but at least you get the cool boss music as well as 300 exp and 1500GP; its Okay, I guess!!!

Idura's Monsters were easy! and he does actually mention that he cannot be destroyed, the main problem being, that he can send unlimited monsters after you; still Dekar does come in and destroy some more monsters; this will make Idura leave, and Dekar will take Alex and Josef back to the castle. Before Dekar can continue, he wants to know how to solve the previous puzzle; the comment Selan makes seems to be completely wrong; because Dekar is after all the dumbest person in the Human Race; after putting Dekar on track, you will be able to exit the Labyrinth via the escape spell. When you reach the Bound Castle; you should once again head straight for the throne room, and you had better be ready for some shocking news...!
