<a id="s4-32"></a>

## 4.32. Ancient Tower

**MAIN GOALS** Defeat "GADES" the Sinistral of Destruction! Save Selan's Hometown! (Parcelyte!) Escape from the Tower! (Maxim!)

Items -> Pumkin Jewel, Muscle Ring, Protect Ring, Miracle, Cloud Key, Fayza Shield,

Well, your main goal is to stop Gades, because he seems to have a passion for destroying things; such as towns and villages. When you enter this place; you should look around for a statue; when you see the statue, it should be moved into the middle of the Red carpet. After completing that part of the task; I would advise you to push the statue against the Northern wall; where you will reveal a path leading to a door; which you should enter. Through the door you should find a monster, which likes to warp around the place; its a Pumpkin head, and they drop Pumpkin Jewels when you defeat them; which can up your intelligence stats. When you take out the Pumpkin Heads; you should continue along the one way path; so proceed through the door, and kill the monsters which follow; then head through another door; this time you are not supposed to kill the monster, the idea of this task is to trap the monster within the four statues, so you can get through the door; you should use arrows to stun the creature if needed. When the door opens, proceed into the next room; and you will have to solve another puzzle. This ones easier than it looks, first of all, move the statue to the lower left corner of the spikes; this should allow you to grab it with your Hook; and you may head down the stairs, and into the next room; where you will find, another MONSTER!

The monster should be destroyed, but you might as well enter the door which follows, so you can fight another monster; and to be honest, you might as well keep going through doors until your outside the tower; and again you are advised to progress through the door which follows. When you reach that room, you should pull the Lever switch, and kill all of the monsters, so you can make life less awkward for yourself. When the room is clear, you should blow up the weak wall near the lever; this will take you into another small room with a Pumpkin Head; plus you will also find that the door upcoming door is locked; and to tell you the truth, theirs nothing inside this room to open it with, not even a puzzle to solve. In this case you need to find another door, so why not check the northern wall, near the white monster tile. This will make the wall corrode and on top of this, you will have revealed another door; so head through the door and down the stairs; then skip another room; and you should get to a room with some monsters, and four warp tiles. Again kill off the monsters to make life easier, then take the time to explore each warp tile individually; you never know what treasures you will find....???

It seems that you can enter this warp tile in three different directions, one of them leads you to nowhere of importance, and the others lead you to some treasures, and they will eventually allow you to continue. To begin with, try entering the warp tile from it's right side; this will lead you into a large room with "THREE" treasure chests, so you are guaranteed to get your hands on something of High quality. Open each of the chests to receive a Pumkin Jewel; a Muscle ring and a Protect ring; and yes, for some reason the programmers of this game couldn't spell the word "Pumpkin" properly. Okay, so you have the treasures; so you will most likely encounter some monsters; in total I think you will end up in five or six battle within this small room. When you have taken all treasures, you should head through the Southern door, so you will find a ladder leading to two more doors. The door to the Right should be explored first, when you enter the door; you will find a pumpkin head monster and another door; which leads to a small puzzle, to solve this puzzle, just push the blocks onto the white tiles and be on your way through the next door and over to the switch that follows. The switch can be used to get rid of the blue pillars in the northern area of this room; so smack the damn thing with your sword, and head back to the ladder outside the tower.

This time, you should take the door to the LEFT of the ladder, inside you will encounter some more monsters; you have to defeat all of them, so you can head through the door which follows, where you will find the Cloud Key inside a blue chest; and you will also come across a weak wall; which you should blow up; through the wall is a chest containing a Miracle Potion. When you've got the Miracle and Cloud Key; you need to head all the way back to the room with those Warp Tiles. Upon reaching the room, you must stand in the warp, so you can get back to the main tile. When you are in the right place, you need to enter the warp tile from it's left side; this takes you to the right side of the room, so you can continue your adventure.

Okay, lads and lasses, we are getting close to Gades, down the stairs which follows the right warp tile, you will come across two more doors. The lower door contains a Fayza Shield, which you will need for Dekar, so his agility will be increased a little; and you should avoid the Deadly armour, which is lurking around, waiting for you to make a wrong move. Just get the treasure and exit the room as soon as possible, then head through the upper door, so you will end up in the room with the blue pillars, which you got rid of a few minutes ago; when you arrive, stamp on the switch to dispose of the red pillars and head through the door to the left, pull the lever switch, and head back into the pillar room. You will now be able to reach the top floor of this tower, so proceed through the Southern door; and keep going through doors until you're outside the tower, with two ladders, in this case, you need to head down the ladder to your left; and through the door. As if by magic, you will be inside another puzzle room, this time you need to push all four pillars onto their switches, one of the pillars is obvious; but for the other three, you will find the switches, one pace north of each statue; so push each of those statues one pace upwards, and the one to the left, one pace downwards, then proceed into the next room.

The next room is tiny, so head up a few flights of stairs, until you come to a large area, with two statues, one of them is red, and the other is blue. In this place you are going to solve another puzzle, this time it involves the two statues which I just mentioned. To begin with, you must strike the Blue statue "FIVE" times with your sword; secondly, the red statue needs to be hit three times. When your done, step on the monster tile in between the statues; and you will reveal two healing pods; which you had better use; if you want to survive against Gades. When you're at full health, you should head through the Southern door; and use the save point. The next door will lead outside, so keep on point till you reach a large room with three warp tiles; which you need to stand on, so you can begin the monster races mini-game, if you want the monsters to move, just swing your sword about, and if you have picked a winner, you should be able to continue, you should also find a lever switch on your travels too; this should be pressed to lower the platform outside the tower, when you're done, head back to the monster race room; and back through the southern door. Then head through the southern door in the room which follows; you will be outside the tower once again. You will see another door, so enter the door and finally you will have reached the boss door, now use the Cloud Key to open the boss door, and prepare to fight Gades the sinistral of destruction......'.'

Well, you have finally reached Gades: The sinistral of destruction, all he asks from you is for you to bow down to him; as your team refuses to do so; Gades will attempt to kill you. This battle should be much easier than before because of your higher stats, he can still wreck havoc, so be careful...!

```
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  # Sinistral Boss: GADES #  HP: 2,500       Weakness: no weaknesses
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
```

¥ This is the Giant of Destruction, he is known as Gades; and he wants to kill you this time. You are going to have a long battle, and you will most likely need to do loads of healing; you team should have Dekar in the front; and Guy second, and good ol' Maxim at the back. In this battle, Gades will be faster than you, so he will probably get a Destructo-wave in, which isn't too much of a threat. If he ever uses "DEVASTATION" you should heal immediately, coz that attack does 100-150 damage to a single party member; and the attack does actually live up to it's name, if I hadn't told you about this, you wouldn't be prepared, and you would probably be Devastated yourself. That's it for the attacks of Gades, now what attacks can you use to kill him off quickly, now you should have full Ikari points for Dekar and Guy in particular, and Dekar should be equipped with the Thunder Ax; someone is bound to have the Eagle Jewel as well, and Maxim has some weak magic. First of all, lets have Maxim cast Trick on every party member, because standard magic is fairly poor when fighting a strong warrior like Gades. Dekar should then use the "Thunderball" IP technique, from his Thunder Ax; leaving him with very little IP's, if Guy or Maxim is equipped with the Eagle Rock, then you should use "Dive", which will cause 100 odd damage to Gades. When you lose all your IP's, just have Dekar and Guy attack normally, and use Maxim to heal any lost HP's, if Guy still has the Camu armor equipped when your IP's are regenerated, you should use it's IP technique "Divine Cure" because it should be 3 time stronger than Maxim's Strong spell; which works a treat, last of all, you should only use

Miracle potions for Major healing purposes, and I wouldn't advise leaving a character below 150HP, unattended, coz it only takes Devastation to live up to it's name. When you've killed Gades, you will receive 10,000 exp! and 20,000 GP!, and that has to be the Greatest reward you've had yet, on top of this, one of your characters, may actually gain a level, coz thats a load o' experience for this point in the game....'.'

Well, Gades did give away loads of experience points, as well as a good bit of spending money. Sadly, you do not get the "Gades" Blade for winning this battle, and it's not even in my inventory at this point. It doesn't really matter, coz you get loads more cool weapons in the future; after defeating Gades he will be astonished at your fighting skills, while he attempts to leave, Maxim will follow him, and the Ground will fall, making it impossible for Guy and Dekar to help the poor bloke. Gades, is really upset about you defeating him, and he does intend to have the last laugh, so he decides to blow up Seim island. Gades will activate his destruction controls, the Girls will be on their way too, Selan and Tia have come because they are both worried about Maxim; so we have a bit of a love triangle here. Anyway, it's up to Maxim to shut of the controls, and he could possibly be killed in the process, so your mission with Maxim alone, is to save Parcelyte...!

Around this place we can see three staircases; the one to the North leads to the first statue in this puzzle, so head down those stairs, kill the Deadly armour with your magic "Flash" or "Gale" and proceed through the door which follows, you should see some stairs, down those stairs you will find the Blue statue; this one can be activated by arrows, so fire an arrow at the statue to make it disappear; then head through the door nearby to obtain a Magic Bikini, which you should give to Selan when she rejoins your party. That's the first statue out of the way, so lets head back to the very first room; with the three staircases, this time you should head down the stairs to the right. downstairs, you will immediately come across the Red Statue, and if you read the hint tile in the previous room, you should know that it can be destroyed by Bombs, apart from the statue, there's another door in this room; which takes you to another save point, the door inside the save room leads you to a dead end; so head back to the very first room and take the stairs to the left. This time you will come into a small room, with a Deadly armour and an MP healing pod. In this case, you should heal your MP's and kill off the monster with some of your Ice magic; such as the "Gale" spell; because that seems to be the monsters weakness. Now proceed through the door and down the staircase in next room, you should be in a room with some monsters tiles, and I would strongly advise that you stand on all of them, and the same goes for the room which follows. When you've stood on all eight monster tiles, you can finally head through the next door; through the door, it's a pretty straight forward path to the final room; and the final room starts of a whole hoard of interesting scenes; so if you need a summary, then you are welcomed to read on, but if you want to watch the scene like normal, then stop reading for the time being, and enjoy the massive chunk of the storyline held within the next ten minutes of events, anyway, here we go with the short summary.....
