<a id="s4-33"></a>

## 4.33. Story Events

**MAIN GOALS** Watch all the scenes! Feel sorry for Tia! -> This is a Physical Task....

No, Nooooo; Maxim can't die here, all does infact seem to be lost, but whats this? who has come, could it be Gades here to finish him? or could it be some green haired chick, who has decided to rescue him? The answer is yes, it's no other than Iris, she is going to teleport the poor lad back to Parcelyte, and she will make herself scarce for a short while.

Back in Parcelyte, what a beautiful day, and it must be great to be out of that horrible tower; whats this? is it Selan, she welcomes him with opened arms, she is soooo... pleased to have him back. Girls shouldn't cry says Lemmy, sometimes it's okay though, in the background we can see Tia, the girl is really upset, but for some reason, she cannot cry, and that's coz her name sounds like "Tear", which means the kids used to call her crybaby when she was young. Tia doesn't win Maxim's heart, but Dekar is nearby, she would be better off with him I suppose, he maybe dumb, but perhaps he's kind hearted, Okay, Tia walks of for good; leaving her friends..and this is where you feel sorry for the poor lass. Goodbye Tia, whats Maxim and Selan up to, oh, look it's a wedding, Maxim and Tia's wedding, that's nice, but I still think it should have been Tia there, not that Selan is not an nice girl. Now what happened during the four seasons, lets think, we have Selan wearing a two piece swimsuit, and she's willing to settle for the one piece this time. We also have a little advertiser, in the form of a jelly fried in olive oil; and not to much surprise, we see the happy couple in firing range at the castle, and finally we have a new born baby, who will be named Jeros; only problem here is the fact that Idura has something to get at Maxim and Selan; a baby. Now, Idura wants to kidnap the little nipper, and he succeeds, but he also mentions some guy from high above, but sadly not his name, and it is not actually Gades this time; who could it be? could there really be someone who could put up more of a fight than Gades, who knows? but one things true, your next destination is to the Northern Lighthouse in pursuit of Idura, and in your team you have, Selan and Maxim, but no-one else for the time being. Okay off you go, and don't forget to stock up on some items such as Hi-Potions and Regains; with only two party members, life can be much harder, and you should also equip Selan with the Magic Bikini too, and I wouldn't waste my time on the deadly armour, if you keep it in it's cursed condition, it can be sold for a cool 10,000GP, which is a lot of money at this point in the game. So head off to the Northern Lighthouse like I said, and prepare to storm Idura!
