<a id="s4-34"></a>

## 4.34. North Lighthouse

**MAIN GOALS** Rescue Jeros from Idura! Obtain the Light Key! Defeat Idura!

Items -> Mystery Ring, Dragon Egg, Big Shield, Light Key, Bee Rock, Fire Ring

Lil' Jeros is in the clutches of the wicked Idura, what will we do? okay, so we need to get Maxim and Selan's Kid back from this lighthouse; but of course they will be monster's involved. Upon entering the tower, you are required to ignore the bloke standing at the door; he doesn't have anything to say, that you don't already know. Okay, you have four blocks, now arrange them so they make an arrow, that points to the right door, if you do this properly, you can proceed through the right door; where you will encounter a Goblin; and some switches, first of all, place a crate on the two upper switches, this will completely open the door, next place the last crate right outside of the door, and remove both crates from the switches, now place a crate on the last switch, this will cause the spikes to drop guard, so you can now place the final crate onto the monster tile, and you may also head through the door to continue; and I've missed the other door in this room because it doesn't hold any bonuses for your benefit, for the time being, so lets get our hands on some more treasures...!

Okay, through the door we have three treasure chests, the items inside are the Mystery Ring, a Dragon egg and a Big Shield; you should equip the big shield on Maxim and give Selan the Mystery Ring, unless she has something really good that increases her intelligence rather than her strength. When you have the treasure, head back to the previous room and proceed through the next door. Inside, you will encounter a few monsters, you might as well kill them off and head up the stairs in the same area, following on from the stairs, you will find another monster; although beating every monster is recommended in my opinion, you can just skip it and head through the door which follows. The puzzle which follows in the next room is hard, but you could do it if you try really hard, but if you want the answer then I will grant your wish...here goes...!

<!-- MIXED -->

| 1 | 6 | 3 | 2 | "The puzzle is shown by an ascii diagram with various

**numbers, this should help you, but I have to explain**

| 8 | 2 | 5 | 4 | myself first. Okay, so we have the no.2 listed in two

**boxes, this means that those squares in particular are**

| 7 | 5 | 1 | 8 | paired with each other, and the same goes for the rest

**of the numbers, pretty simple huh?"**

| 7 | 4 | 3 | 6 |

Yeah, we have opened the door, but we overlooked some stairs in the left area of this room; down those stairs, and after skipping a few empty rooms we come to a switch. So we must press this switch, as it effects the events later in this place, but for now head back to the door in the puzzle room, and proceed into the next chamber. From here on, take the one way path until you come to a large room with two pillars, which can be grabbed by the Hook; you should also see a door, if you head through the door, and then up the ladder, you will come to a small room with a Fire Ring, this will come in handy, but I wouldn't have it equipped just yet. After taking the ring, whip out the hook and head back to the room with two pillars, grab the pillar to the right and proceed through the upper door which follows, and you will probably have a fight with the Armored horse before continuing. Inside the next room, you can fight another horse, this time you will come across a weak wall, which should be bombed. Through the wall, a lever switch lies, so pull the lever and head back to the room where you found two pillars. You previously ignored a door; in this case its the Southern door, so head through the door, and up the ladder which follows. Now head through the door, and solve the not so easy puzzle, you have two pots and a switch, so walk on the switch; watch the tiles closely, and decide which tiles were previously black. When you have a good idea which is which, you can place the pots onto those tiles and claim the "Light" Key from the Blue chest which follows.

You now have the Key, so lets find the door! If you follow the narrow path to your left, you will eventually come to a warp tile, this warp tile can be used to reach a room near the entrance of this tower. Okay, lets head for the first puzzle of this tower, the one where you created an arrow using some blocks. This time, make the arrow point to the left, when you do this, you will gain access to the left door, through the door; you will encounter a few monsters, and you will see the boss door, which can be opened by the Light Key. If you keep going till you reach the fourth floor, you will need to kill loads of monsters, there is no way out of this apart from avoiding them. When you reach the fourth floor, you will find two doors to explore. The door to the left should be explored first, you will find a save point and some more monsters inside, you might as well save the game, so do just that, and head over to the wonderful healing tiles, you should gain some HP's and MP's as you are most likely a bit beaten up after all those monsters. At 100% health you will be ready to tackle a few more monsters, so exit this room and head through the right door this time, you will see some more monsters as well as another staircase, downstairs you should find a statue, if you move the statue one pace to the left, your going to find a weak patch, place a bomb on the weak patch, and it will produce a small hole. You can now get rid of the statue, so push the statue down the hole, and do the same with yourself; next, you should stand on the lower switch so the pillars will rise. After making the pillars rise, you should move the statue onto the upper switch; and take your prize, a Bee Rock...which is okay I guess!

Okay, you have another treasure, but you still don't have your most important treasure, your son (Jeros). This is what needs to be done, so listen up; head back to the room where you found the statue a few minutes ago; head through the southern door, and keep going through doors until you come to a small room with a block puzzle. Now, push three of the blocks onto the switches and walk on the final switch, some stairs will appear, and you will be able to go up them, and finally on the sixth floor, you will find Jeros, and not to mention, his kidnapper, Idura...!

Idura enters the arena, he has Jeros captive, and sadly, his master doesn't want Maxim's bloodline to continue. This leaves Idura with only one option; KILLING JEROS, and he also mentions that the babies death will be grim. He will lose the baby from captivity, by the hand of Iris; so Maxim and Selan decide to teach him a lesson, (One that he will never forget?)!!!

**Boss:** Idura

**HP:** 1,500 · **Weakness:** Ice

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Mam and Dad vs the Kiddy Snatcher...what has this game come to? This should be a nice challenging battle, and because you only have two team members in your arsenal, you will have a slight problem. I would make sure you have a Cold Rapier handy for Maxim...Selan also needs to have the Mind Ring..she's going to do some major healing...Maxim might as well keep his Thunder Ring equipped too, we will need the "Bolt" Spell for the Groupies, summoned with Idura's strange powers...Still, we need strategy for such a battle, to give yourself a slight advantage...make sure Maxim uses the "Glacial Blast" IP Technique, from the Cold Rapier, if Selan sticks to her "Gale" spell, then she will do some more severe Ice damage to follow...when Idura uses Idura Thunder, or Plasma Blaster, your IP's will be bumped up a little, Selan in most cases should now be able to use the "Stronger" IP Technique from her Mind Ring; this will heal both Maxim and Selan for around 100HP; which is always useful, whenever a Groupie is summoned, Maxim should cast "Bolt" or his Flash Spell, and on top of this, you might want Selan to follow, using "Gale" or an Ice Elemental Ikari Technique, in most respects this battle is simple, with two characters, but if Selan is wounded (Dead!) you have a big problem...if you managed to win this battle, 5,000 experience points and 1,000 Gold Coins will be awarded...!

With Idura out of the way for the time being, it is now possible to escape from this tower. Iris mentions that Maxim was mean't to die within the tower and because he married Selan and produced a child, he has caused chaos once again. This seems a little on the harsh side, but who cares, you are going to put this problem right after all, so why worry.....???
