<a id="s4-37"></a>

## 4.37. Phantom Tree Mountain

**MAIN GOALS** Find Jyad and the Phantom Tree! Acquire the "Fire Arrow" Skill!

Items -> Tree Key, Fire Arrow, Water Ring

This place isn't just called the Northern Mountain, it's real name is the Phantom Tree mountain, so you can guess what your looking for; you should also keep a look out for Jyad the ship builder, as he is the main reason why your here. Okay, let's begin, through the very first door, you will witness some doors and a monster, the first monster is one of those bee's, and to be honest, they can outrun your whole party, in terms of speed. If possible, you should avoid the bee, and continue through the left door, to open this door place a bomb right outside, to destroy all the bushes in one go.

Inside, you will find some plant monsters, you can kill these easily by using the Fireball spell, followed by a few normal attacks. The next door holds a staircase, upstairs you can use a lever switch to make a ladder appear on the other side of the room. Okay, we need to get our rear ends over to the ladder now, so lets backtrack to the very first room, and take the right door this time, while heading up the staircase which follows. If you want, kill off the monster's here, and head through the door to continue, like I said earlier, it is better to avoid the bee's so be careful around these parts. In the next room, you should turn the Tree monster into charcoal, and keep following the one way path, till you finally come to some stairs, upstairs you will find a puzzle to solve, and just to your luck, a bee is fairly close to you. This puzzle is strange, but not easy, before you even attempt the puzzle, you may want to blow up the wall, through the hole, you will find some monsters; and once again the Fireball spell comes in handy. After burning your foes, you should keep on this one way path, till you come to a Blue chest, containing the Tree Key, which is no-doubt the thingy needed to open the boss door. You have the key, so head back to the Puzzle room, and solve that horrible puzzle or read this solution, which I have provided for you..!

Okay from the bottom left corner of the bushes, follow these directions.....

Right - Right - Up - Right - Up - Up - Left - Down - Left - Up - Left...

Then you should fill in the extra spaces, which shouldn't be a problem, it's easy, so you won't need my help for that part. Once all the bushes grow, you will be able to head through the next door, and into a room with another blue chest, once opened, you will reveal the Fire Arrow skill, this can be used to burn up bushes in a line, and that sure does come in handy in certain cases; so use it on the bushes in this room for practice, then head through the next door, and burn up the enemies once again, using the fireball spell in battle; you should be getting some good exp. and GP for winning, so why not take out all the enemies around the area, apart from the bee's of course..!!!

Okay, lets follow this one way path till we come to some stairs, upstairs you will come across another staircase leading into a large room, saturated with various monsters; with a weakness to fire; and of course, you will find what looks to be a small treasure for your troubles, when you make it over to the chest, you will pick up a Water Ring; which isn't too bad, but I would say it probably wasn't worth the bother; but who cares, you've got it now, so let's head back up the stairs; and through the secret door hidden behind the vines on the nearest wall. Inside, you will have another puzzle to solve, and yes; you need to be using the Fire arrows, so get them out, and follow my solution carefully, coz you will find this one, Difficult!

To begin with, get rid of as many bushes as possible, using both the Sword and your newly acquired Fire arrows. Then move the first block to your left and the second block to the right. You now need to toast all the remaining bushes, so use the fire arrows and push the movable left block upwards; so you can then push it's neighbor to the right, and finally, you may push the last of those blocks onto the switch, to reveal a ladder, making it easier for you to begin the next puzzle. Okay, that's that bit done, now proceed up the next ladder, burn those annoying bushes, and move the two nearest blocks onto the switches, to reveal yet another ladder; and you may also notice a really "HARD" puzzle to your right, which you now have to solve.....!

This is a tricky one, and lets hope I can explain this properly. The aim here is to reach the door, but you must place the two pots onto the switches; that is the hard part so listen up; or and if you want to solve this puzzle with no guidance from me....then, erm, GOOD LUCK! (Coz your gonna need it!)

Okay, enter the small patch of earth, you should know exactly what I mean, as it does have a slightly different texture used for this area. Take the first opening you see, and follow these directions....

R = RIGHT TR = TURN RIGHT! L = LEFT TU = TURN UP!!!! U = UP TD = TURN DOWN!! D = DOWN TL = TURN LEFT!! LP = LIFT POT! DP = DROP POT!

U-R-U-R-R-R-D-R-U-R-LP U-U-L-L-D-L-L-L-L-D-L-L-U-U-U-U-TR-DP TU-LP-U-DP

R-TD-LP-U-DP-TL-LP-R-TU-DP D-D-D-R-D-R-R-U-R-R-U <> FINISH!!!

Now that the puzzle is out of the way, we can continue through the door which follows, if you didn't manage to do that puzzle the first time, you will need to get out of the monster saturated room where you found a water ring. Now the door is opened, you might as well go inside, so proceed while blowing up the wall inside the room which follows, you should come to a room with some pillars, before you can hook onto any platform, you should get onto the only accessible platform with no pillar's in sight; from there you can reach the next door, by following my directions once again, my direction's are as follows...DOWN - LEFT - DOWN - RIGHT - UP - RIGHT - UP....and of course the going ain't gonna be easy, coz monsters are on every platform; and when you do reach the final platform, you should head through the door, which leaves us in a room with some stairs, so proceed upstairs and through the door into a room with some meaning, in other words another small puzzle. Here you must stun the lizardman, when he walks onto the switch, this should give you some time to reach the pillar with your hook. When you make it across, it won't be long before you come to a door, you should proceed through the door, and keep on going till you reach another door, on the mountain side, only problem is that it's boarded up, and there's only one way to gain access, let's blow the damn thing up......!

Upon entering the door you just opened, you will encounter a Mad Gorem, but instead of destroying it at first, you should lower it onto the weak area in the middle or the room, as soon as Maxim and the Monster both walk on the weak floor together, it will fall through. Leaving you pretty neat the mad gorem, and on the path to another door, if you decided to kill the monster after all, then fine, but one thing is for sure, it's a one way path to Jyad and, you will soon have a boss battle, so save your game when you reach the save tile, and speak to Jyad. You have to sort out the monsters, but you do get to use Jyad's ship to reach two new places, or should I say the eastern continent. After walking a few steps, you will come to a boss, it's a pair of Lions, and they haven't been fed yet, so lets fight!!!!

**Boss:** 2 × Lion · **HP:** 900 each

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ These beasts are proud lions and they want to harm you a little, and if their Lucky, they can even get a meal out of you. Who cares? you should beat these guys no problem, apart from their standard physical attacks, they can bite and scratch you; if they scratch you, they will inflict some damage on the whole party, although this is nothing to cry about. To make an easy meal of these monsters, lets begin with the "Thunderball" IP technique, it works a treat, coz it does over 500 damage, next hammer them with Magic spells from Selan; and have Maxim and Guy attack normally. Selan may need to cast her healing spells the odd time, but you should win this battle quickly; when you've won, 10,000 exp and 16,000 GP will be transported to your status screen, and the satisfaction of victory to your mind, overall, you sure are a winner, now lets get going to the phantom tree.

Reaching the tree ain't a problem, simply get out the Hook skill and head down the one way corridor after fighting the lions. There will be two pillars outside here, so get across the gap, and you will come to the tree. There will be a small scene where Jyad gets warped back to Aleyn, and you will find out that it will take a few days to build a vessel, so your gonna have to chill out for a few days, and catch up with Guy and Dekar...!
