<a id="s4-4"></a>

## 4.4. Cave Leading to Sundletan

**MAIN GOALS** Retrieve the Key to Sundletan! Defeat the Lizard Man! *EASY* Have a conversation with Iris!

**Items:** Life Potion, Escape, Antidote, Power Potion, Hide Armour, Magic Jar

Upon entering the cave, you will see a man; speak to him, and he will explain that a woman went into the cave alone. After hearing that news, you should go inside the first room; where you will find a bridge.

First of all, proceed across the bridge, and head along the path to the right of the door facing you. You will eventually come to another door which can be entered, to obtain a few items. Inside you will find two doors; you can find an Escape item, in the Right door, and you will notice that the left door is locked. The left door, contains a Life potion; you can open it by placing the pots onto the two switches. When you've taken both treasures; backtrack into the previous room, and press the switch; which can be found under a bush, the only one in this small room to be exact. After pressing the switch; you will have gained access to the door below, which will take you into a room; thats saturated with bushes, with only one monster to dispatch.

This room like I said before, is covered in bushes; which need to be trimmed, with no other than your trusty sword. When all the bushes are trimmed to size you should hug the left wall, to reveal a chest containing an antidote. After getting the treasure, proceed through the door to the right; you will be in a room with more pots and a mushroom. First of all, clear the bushes to reveal two switches; place one of the pots on the Left switch, and head into the new door, you will be in a room with four monsters and some stone blocks.

If your HP is low, now is a good time to use a potion; you should shift the blocks around till, you manage to reach the staircase in the middle, but you will still need to kill all four monsters; which shouldn't be too hard. The next room, contains some bats; finish of the first bat and take the valuable Power potion from the chest. From your current position, head right till you get to a switch; which can be activated by a good whack from your sword. Now that you've activated the switch, you need to backtrack to the room with the unvisited door; so it's up the staircase and outside the room with all those blocks that you moved.

After coming back to this room, you must now activate the switch to the far right of the room; which can be found inside the three bushes. When you stick a pot onto the switch, you will have triggered the opening of the Right door; which till a few seconds ago was locked. To proceed further into the cave you must head into the right door; and prepare to fight more monsters. The room has two doors inside, the one you want is the left door, so head through it and down the staircase that follows.

Upon entering this new room; you must head across the short bridge, which in this case, leads you to another staircase. To the left of the staircase, you may hug the wall and follow the path till you finally reach, what looks like another staircase. Down that particular staircase, you will find a Magic Jar and a Hide Armour, which should be equipped on Maxim. After taking some nice treasures; head back up the staircase, and backtrack to the other staircase.

When you finally head down the staircase, you will some healing pads; you may also save your game. After freshening up, continue along the path and proceed up the stairs to you right; you will be in a room, with a Lizard Man; who has decided to nick the key. Walk over to him, and be prepared for a boss battle.

**Boss:** Lizard Man · **HP:** 80

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Lizard Man, do you need a strategy for this lame creature, tis' simple, you are around levels 3-5 and you have a Small Knife or Rapier equipped, you need to kill him, so use normal physical attacks and use a Potion when Maxim's HPs drop below fifteen. Keep repeating this, watch him drop dead and take 100GP and 125 experience points...this is fairly O.K for such a Simple Boss.

One Dead Lizard Man equals a nice new key, you can go to Sundletan now..after your cozy chat with the lovely Iris...some Oracle Chick who is able to see the Future. Watch this scene, Maxim will learn that he is some kind of Hero who is going to save the world, could this have something to do with this Red Light that appeared...or is this some strange girl wanting a little adventure in her sad life...looks like it's up to you...!

Sundletan, is the next stop for our Hero, so lets go use the escape item. In an instance you will be outside the cave; now would be a good time to get the "Strong" spell! However, this is can be purchased in Sundletan..to reach your next destination, re-enter the cave, enter the first door, walk across the bridge and enter the door above you; inside, avoid the Mushroom, use your Key and head for Sundletan!
