<a id="s4-40"></a>

## 4.40. Tower of Sacrifice

**MAIN GOALS** Rescue the unmarried girls! (From Idura....AGAIN!) Defeat Idura once again!

Items -> Ice Ring, Narcysus Key

Well Dekar is looking for a Girlfriend, and there are some Girl's in trouble within the walls of this tower. How ironic it is that Dekar wants to save all of them, perhaps he will find himself a lass one day, who knows? Okay, thats enough fun talk; lets get serious, and clear out the very first room of this tower; but be careful, especially against the Dragonians; they can use a fire spell that does 40-60 damage to all party members. When you're happy with the state of the first room, you are obliged to continue. Danger is still in your path within the second chamber too, this time we have some Dragonians and a Pug; let's do away with the monsters and attempt to enter the next room. The strange metal block is halting you, so lets put our thinking caps on, and go behind the damn thing. Strange isn't it; we have no force against us; this is a perfect importunity to enter the door; inside, take those stairs, but kill the specter's if needed. Now we have more Dragonian's and specters, on inside the large room which follows, same strategy applies, just kill them all, and take the time to enter the door, so you end up in another room, but this time you have to solve a puzzle, and that's where the real fun begins.

Now we have two missing pillars, so pull the lever switch and use the hook to cross the pit. Next, we have the puzzle I mentioned, this is fairly simple; but it would have taken most people a while to figure out. Okay, stamp on the two switches and head through the door from which you came from; and DO NOT walk between the two metal stones; now lunge across the pit once again, and take the time to blow up the southern wall. This will allow you to access the area past those metal stones, without the puzzle resetting itself; and you can also head through the southern door to find; MORE MONSTERS!

Yeah, we have more monsters, let's kill them, and use their blood for feeding vampires; then follow the path through the door, until you reach a small room with an Ochi warrior inside. Prepare to make a kill and blow up the wall to the North; follow on through the new hole, and head down the stairs, and make sure you destroy the Dragonian. Now head down another staircase, and take the time to blow up those crumbling pillars in the room which follows. Near those pillars, you will find a Blue Chest, inside we find the Narcysus Key; and you may have already noticed that a wall has suddenly appeared after blowing up the pillars. When you're good and ready, head back up a floor, into an area with a Dragonian and three staircases, if you take the lower staircase, you are more than welcomed to get your hands on an Ice ring. Okay, you've taken the treasure, so head back to the small room where you seen an Ochi Warrior for the first time, and head into the Southern room; or should I say, Outside the tower. Lets keep on going, inside the next area, use the Narcysus key; it would also be a good idea to kill the monsters; that way you get to gain some Experience points!

Now we face yet another puzzle, this is kinda simple, lets begin by pushing the block nearest the door, one pace to the south. Then push the same block to the left, until it hits a wall, and becomes stuck. The second block can now be accessed, so lets pull the lever switch, so the statues move into a new formation. Then move the block one pace to the south, and to the right for thirteen paces, then move the block as far to the north as possible. You can get to the door, but you may need to stamp on the switch in the center of this room, so the door is accessible. If you head through the door and up the stairs, your gonna have to solve another puzzle, this time we have two arrows, you need to reverse the tiles; this is fairly simple, although you may need a strategy, so i've done some ascii diagrams to show how it's done!

Just remember one thing; you need to use bombs on the panels to deactivate them, look at the ascii diagrams below!!!!

<!-- MIXED -->

ARROW POINTING RIGHT!

-----

| |

| * | | * | |

**The stars used on this diagram represent where the**

| | * | | | * | bombs should be placed; the same goes for the second

**diagram, the blank boxes represent where those bombs;**

| * | | * | | should not be placed...!

| |

-----

<!-- MIXED -->

ARROW POINTING LEFT!!

-----

| |

| | * | | * | Again the stars represent the bombs; and the empty

**boxes symbolize where the bombs should not be placed!**

| * | | | * | |

| | * | | * |

| |

-----

After operation Blitzkrieg, you should be able to access all three southern doors inside this room; simply because all the statues have moved out of the way, and there's nothing blocking the doors. If you wish to acquire the Hard Hat capsule monster, a.k.a. Gusto; you should check the middle door. The door to your right on the other hand, lets you continue, inside you will see the unthreatening monster, called an Ochi warrior, kill him if needed, and skip the monsters in the next room; then head through the door; there's a lever in this place. Pull the lever, to notice a falling ladder; which means you can now continue. Okay, you've pulled the lever, now get back to the other side of the platform; you can get there via the left door, and that's inside the previous puzzle room; where you blew up some tiles. Again, evade two lots of monsters, and head outside, but this time you end up near a ladder. Up the ladder there's a door; and another one to follow as well as somewhere to save your game. Now there's a simple puzzle, lets begin; stand near the left side of the western column; now head up and down; inside the small gaps between the columns, the door will open if your walking is accurate. Let's be on our way, there's an open door, so head inside, you'll find a staircase inside and not to mention, another Ochi warrior, upstairs there's a door, and inside the door, there's our good friend Idura; and the girls.....!

Idura, what a guy, he manages to imprison your party once again, or should I say, 75% of your party, Dekar doesn't appear to be trapped. The girls will be used to revive Gades; and we don't want that to happen, we also learn of more Sinistrals, and there's four in total, he doesn't mention their names but you will find out later. Idura, pretends to run like a coward and Dekar gets into the cage, he then reappears leaving Dekar trapped as well as the others. Damn it, Dekar is slow, why does he fall for simple tricks all the time; I guess Maxim and co. ask that question all the time. Now Dekar, may be dumb, but he turns the tables onto Idura, he breaks open the cage, and a boss battle takes place, it's Idura for the Second Time!

**Boss:** Idura

**HP:** 2,550 · **Weakness:** Ice

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Same as the last time, but you have the Blizzard spell, he ain't too hard either; let's begin with the "Blizzard" spell, you should allow both Selan and Maxim to cast this, as it seems to be more effective than the Physical attacks used by any characters, Guy and Dekar have no choice, normal hits will be just fine for those lads. Idura can summon Followers, they have a small amount of HP and they can be killed within a few hits; the Plasma Blaster technique he uses is weak too; and you should finish him quickly; without hesitation!

Now wasn't that a brave thing to do, and it's now time for the Hero's Reward; looks like a girl named Marsa wants to be the first girl to kiss Dekar; or is that her BOYFRIEND calling, Kreg's the name. Then we have the others, oh Dear they also have partners too; it's a shame, their's the younger girl left; but dear me, she's only a child. Even she's got a Boyfriend, but hey; perhaps the big Punk guy will find himself a missus some day! Whatever happens, you need to cast the "Escape" spell to exit the tower; when your done, go back to the town of Narcysus, this will give you a little time to heal and chat with the villagers if needed, when your done in that place, head east till you reach a somewhat small village, known as Karlloon!
