<a id="s4-42"></a>

## 4.42. Karlloon's North Shrine

**MAIN GOALS** Get your hands on the Dekar Blade! Defeat Idura! (Trust me! this is the last time!) Tragic events regarding Dekar, watch them!

Items -> Dekar Blade, Lion Fang, Fury Ring

What's up first? there's a preacher, and your probably wondering what he's up to, but he does sense uneasiness around this area; just ignore him, and head through the Northern Door. There's a Lion and some fallen pillars inside the next chamber, so blow up the pillars to reveal a hidden tile, then shove the statue to your left onto the tile. The door opens, so let's go, enter those stairs and keep going through doors on this one way path until you reach some pillars, but for this moment in time; these pillars aren't useable, lets head through the door to the North instead. This room has two coloured switches; first off, hit both of those switches with your sword, then use the hook to jump over the pit, open the chest and you will receive the Dekar Blade; which can be used with Dekar only!

Well, the Dekar Blade's Ikari technique is cool, but this alone won't allow you to make any progress, let's exit this small chamber. The area your inside right now has a pit, and to the left of this pit is a Lever switch; so fire an arrow, get out the Hookshot and be on your way; you won't have much bother due to those weak monsters, just head for the chamber with a burning candle; give it a slap and voila the door behind you closes. That's fair enough, but your not beaten yet, check out another door, which can be found in the far right area of the room. Now, head through the door and up the stairs, kill off those monsters and keep going till you find a small room with a chest; if you want the Lion Fang from the chest, you should move the block up one space so you can get passed. The Lion Fang would work a treat while equipped on Guy or Dekar; it does boost up attack power loads, and it can increase agility by a great deal too!

Through the door which follows, we find a warp tile, enter the damn thing and proceed into another door which follows this path. There's a puzzle to solve; it's easy so follow my simple steps to victory; first off, move the first of the blocks, one pace to the left; then do the same for the block above. Then push the same block upwards; now you have a clear path; so push the next one to the right. As for the block below, it needs to be move downwards, and you should end up moving the final block; so you can access the warp tile in the middle of the room. Take a warp ride, to cause a zapping experience, giving you the chance to reach the next chamber, it's a room with a Dark skull and some badly engineered walls. Okay, first things first, you have to blow up the walls, this will reveal two hidden paths. The right path leads you into a small room with a Lever switch, and yes! you do need to pull this lever to rid you of the spikes on the Left Path. Now, head out of this room, and make your way through the left hole, you will notice that the spike's aren't here anymore, and you will also find some healing tiles and a save point, which is what you normally like to see in any place. By all means take advantage of a healing wind, you should also save the game too, when your done, head inside that warp portal, exterminate the monsters, then head through the door, and I will also mention that we run into an old friend once again....GUESS WHO???

Yes! you know who it is, it's no other than the Sinistral's servant, Idura; and he brings news of some guy named Amon; who just happens to be his master; and on top of this, he is one of the four Sinistrals, he is the Master of CHAOS; perhaps one of the coolest looking Sinistrals around. He ain't ready to kill you just yet, but Idura would love to regain Amon's trust again; he is really mad at you and he wants to fight, so here's Idura for the Third and FINAL Time...!

**Boss:** Idura

**HP:** 3,600 · **Weakness:** Ice

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Owch! This is his final form, he's much better than the previous bosses, coz he now has 3,600HP; and that is quite a lot. Dekar, should be the first ally to attack, let's begin with his Fatal Blow Ikari technique from his signature weapon, the "DEKAR BLADE" and just to you luck, this will halve Idura's Life; making him very weak indeed, you should allow Maxim and Selan to use spells, such as "Blizzard" and "Trick", Guy can only use normal attacks, if you have a Lion Fang equipped on him, then by all means use the Bite technique. Idura can use two main attacks, Idura Thunder and Plasma Blaster, the one with the biggest threat is the "Plasma Blaster" technique, it can cause over 80 damage to all party members. Idura also summons Groupies, again these creatures are no threat whatsoever; just finish him off quickly, and he will soon drop the experience and gold! He's worth 10,000 exp and 10,000 gold!

I suppose killing Idura was fun, and there's still another door in front of you which should not remain unexplored. Iris is waiting inside, it seems that Idura has kidnapped her, but why? your party try to escape, and fail to do so because the "Escape" spell is blocked. Fair enough, the spell is blocked, but what's really worrying is the tower collapsing, it looks like Idura will have the last laugh after all!

Head outside the door where you fought Idura, there's a Medusa waiting. The place has reformed a little and there is a door on the southern wall, so go through the door and move the statues onto the tiles, then hook the pillar to continue. Now head down two staircases, you will end up in a large room; grab the Fury Ring if you want, but be aware of the Dark Skull nearby, now blow up the wall and progress up the unexplored stairs; you might have to fight some monsters on the way, but you should be able to handle them. Right now, it may be a good idea to unequip Dekar, you will see why later, just do as I say, he won't need any equipment, he's strong and he can fight with his bare hands I suppose. Let's get going; head through the door, and kill the hound; and take the Northern Staircase, so you end up in a room with some kind of Black orb; this ain't the end yet; escape is unblocked but Idura's ghost comes, Dekar is ready to fight all the monsters and Maxim, Iris, Guy and Selan must escape as the shrine won't last; poor ol' Dekar, what's the lad ever done to be killed in a way like this, he's gotta kill all Idura's monsters, and he may not make it alive; let's get going, and we are back in the village of Karlloon!
