<a id="s4-47"></a>

## 4.47. Flower Mountain

**MAIN GOALS** Get some flowers for Leefa! Defeat the Rogue Flower! Locate "Raddisher" a capsule monster!

Items -> Hammer Skill, Life Potion, Snake Rock, Burn Sword, Flower Key, Dragon Egg, Flying Ax, Power Ring

Damsel in distress I believe, Leefa desires the flowers on the Southern peak; and you are now in the right place; so get moving up the trail and prepare to gain access by blowing up the door, with some bombs. Now, dispose of the Bear and head through the door, you can now open a blue chest, which contains the Hammer Skill, and that's a perfect tool for breaking up large rocks. Head in the next door and kill off some more monsters, if you go in the room which follows, you will need to break the rocks which are blocking your path; after you've made use of the hammer, you can take the door to end up outside the mountain, but a little higher up this time. Now, get up the stairs and into the door which follows, there's a Necromancer here, and it will drop loads of Mind potions if you keep on fighting the damn creature; you are near a statue so bring out the hammer, and launch it at the statue, the impact will cause the statue to move one pace in the eastern direction; do this again and you can head through the Northern door and into the next room; this time you have a choice of two doors, to begin with, enter the left door!

Downstairs, you should defeat the monster and head through the door. Now, use the arrows to leap down the cliff and head as far right as possible, and leap down the second cliff, then head through the door, beat up all the monsters and head into the upcoming chamber. In here, cut down the vines and enter the door you just found, navigate through the Mini-maze and collect the treasure; it's a valuable Life potion, and you should give this to Maxim. Following on from obtaining the chest, you should also break the weak wall to the North as it can get you a valuable item, for now head back the way you came, and take a right turn, follow the passage, then proceed through the door; before you get to the stairs, you should navigate through the maze till you end up near the broken wall; if you take the new door, you will receive a Snake Rock and that ain't even worth equipping. Just head for the staircase and into another room, this time we have a choice between some stairs and another door. Take the stairs to be wiser, and enter the Southern door. You should be in a room with a healing tile and a rather messy arrangement of rocks and bushes, hack away the bushes and shatter the rocks. Walk around the area you just cleaned up, and you will eventually fall through the floor, into a small room with a few monsters inside, there's also a chest in this place, so open it and claim a BURN SWORD; which can be equipped by all your party members, and I would say that Maxim is best suited for this weapon!

Hey! check out the cool IP technique for the Burn Sword, it's Firestorm and it will wreck havoc against enemies weak against the Fire element, when you have this beauty of a weapon, head through the door and head outside into the open, you should find a blue chest containing the Flower Key! Now head back to the room with the unexplored door. So head over to those arrows and jump down onto the second part of the cliff, now head as far right as possible and leap down once again; go through the door and kill the Necromancer, solve the puzzle and head through the door which follows, now push the statue so it's moving towards the Northern direction and head through the door across the pit, some may call it the door to the right. Now go up the stairs and kill off the monsters inside this room; there's a locked door and a normal door which seems to be accessible, so walk inside and be prepared for a simple puzzle, please read on for directions, the switches are arranged in the order from left to right; and the coding i've used should be familiar to you...

Switch 1 = U-L-L-U-U-U-U-U-R-R-R-R-R-D

Switch 2 = U-L-U-L-L-U-U-U-R-R-R-U

Switch 3 = U-L-U-L-U-L-L

The puzzle was fun and simple, when all the switches have been pressed all the spikes blocking the right corridor will be gone; if you head for the end of this corridor, you can blow up the wall, inside the small room behind the weak wall is three chests, containing a flying ax, a power ring and a Dragon egg; after collecting the treasures head along the door which is also on the corridor. Follow along with the one way path and across the cliffs till you reach another capsule monster, this time we have found Raddisher, he is the equivalent of Guy in terms of strength, but his speed and magic resistance are real bad; but he's a good addition to your team. There's one last thing to do before you can leave this place, go back to the locked door you came across earlier, and keep going through doors and up staircases till you come to a save tile, and somewhere to regain your health; there's lots of monsters on the way to those tiles but you do find loads of Necromancers, which means more Mind potions for Selan. After saving the game, by all means head outside this chamber and walk over to the flower, how nice the damn thing is a rogue and it wants to Photosynthesize you, that ain't good so now would be a good time to shorten it's roots!

**Boss:** Rogue Flower

**HP:** 3,300 · **Weakness:** Fire

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Hmmm...if you have Blaze in his master form he has an attack called "INFERNO" and this will do about 1,500 damage to this Rogue; don't be alarmed by his physical attacks coz he can only do 140 damage to one character, that will hurt Selan, but Maxim and Guy can take strong attacks like that. Let's begin with Selan's Fireball and the Firestorm IP technique from the Burn sword, and I suppose Guy had better attack as normal. Blaze will most likely do major damage with all his special attacks and I can guarantee an easy victory for you; the Rogue flower has some good attacks, but they are nothing to start weeping about, Thorn can be quite deadly and the same goes for the long named technique he does, but like I said don't worry, he will be gone in a couple of rounds, just enjoy getting the experience and gold. 12,000 Exp. and 20,000 Gold to be exact, and that is good for such an easy battle!

Okay, the Rogue Flower is all burned up, so there's one last thing to do in this place, get the flowers you came for I suppose. Now walk over and pick up the beautiful flower, this has just got to be the one Leefa was after; its so big and it must be worth a fortune, when you have the flower, feel free to use the warp spell, but only if you need to get back to Treadool in a hurry; otherwise, take the long way, and gain a few mind potions on the way...!!!!
