<a id="s4-49"></a>

## 4.49. Dankirk

**MAIN GOALS** The Full Deal, upgrade spells, weapons, et cetera! What's up with the Ruby Icon? Gain Information! Get Jaffy the Glass Maker to produce a Fake Icon!

Like the Bound Kingdom, Dankirk is an indoor town; there's some good weapons and some cool spells to by here, so I suggest you go to the equipment store to begin with. Let's get a Broad Sword for Guy, an Estok for Maxim and Selan and last of all, a Superdriver for Lexis. The latest armour is the Silver equipment, this would be perfect for warriors like Maxim and Guy, Selan and Lexis on the other hand need to have Shade Hat's. You may also want to give Selan a Metal Coat as it provides good defense, after the equipment, we need the latest spells, there's a staircase in the equipment store. Go downstairs to reach the Magic store, and purchase the cheaper spells such as Courage and Shield, wait until you've got a fat wallet if you want the other spells.

Fitting in with the storyline is never a problem, so head for the Throne room and have a short conversation with the King and Queen. Auralio have decided to hand over the Ruby Icon, and on top of this, Prince Leon is going to do this personally at the Ceremony! He hopes that the treasure will bring peace between the two countries, so it's obvious; Prince Leon is a good guy, and he doesn't like wars. The Ruby Icon does actually get stolen, I think if you do manage to speak to Leon, this will happen; and if you go down the stairs near Dankirk's Princess, a.k.a. Princess Thea, two men will be rushing about, this isn't good, without the Ruby Icon, peace is a long shot, the ceremony will be ruined and everyone will look foolish. Your mission here is to avoid the two countries going to war, and to do this we need a Ruby Icon; or we could have a Fake Ruby Icon made out of Red Glass; now it's time to call on one of our friends, do you remember a man named Jaffy from the town of Clamento; maybe he can help us!

Clamento once again, it's been a while since you last visited this town, and Jaffy still runs a steady business; so let's give him a bell; speak to Jaffy and he will agree to help you, he can make you a Ruby Icon clone out of Red Glass. When it's made, warp back to Dankirk and show it to Prince Leon, he is willing to try his luck with the King and Queen, but when it's in the Throne room, there's no fooling the Queen, she discovers that it's a fake an she's not amused; WHAT WILL WE DO! Prince Leon really is a fraud, why else would he be called Prince Alex...Hey! i'm only joking, just another one of those Typo errors I guess, Natsume do it again....! Well this is fairly close but we all find out that a man named James is missing, and apparently he's been gone for a few days; how Ironic! Let's just head for the Northern Dungeon, but before you leave it may be a good idea to gain any lost HP/MP's!
