<a id="s4-50"></a>

## 4.50. Northern Dungeon

**MAIN GOALS** Take back the Ruby Icon, and catch the Traitor! Locate all four switches and the Dankirk Key!

Items -> Hi-Magic, Earth Fruit, Fury Ribbon, Flame Jewel, Figgoru, Dankirk Key, Dragon Egg

First bits simple, kill off the Garbost and cut down the bushes, place the vase on the switch and head through the door. Now, there's a monster called a Ramia; it can hurt if you run into it; don't be fooled by how cute those fiends are! Ignore all the monsters and head through the upper right door; inside follow along with a short path, kill the mummy and jump on the switch; this will make a bridge appear, now head back into the second room of this dungeon, once again avoid those monsters, but this time, pull the lever and use the arrow tile to jump down a floor. Head up the steps, and get the hook prepared; use the hook to reach the southern pillar; and head inside another door, dispose of the Garbost, head down stairs and go through the door, kill the mummie, follow this passageway along to a door, head inside and go across a small bridge. Let's use the arrow to drop down, there's a pile o' bones in this area, so blow them up to reveal a hidden switch, jump on the switch and head through where the walls have just separated. Now dispose of the Ramia and whack the switch, trim the vines and blow up the Northern wall, twice! This will reveal a secret room with two chests, a switch and some blocks; in the chests you will find a Hi-Potion and an Earth Fruit. Now! Jump on the switch and push one of the blocks upwards, and the other one two paces in the left direction; Then go up the stairs and through the door; we're back in the second chamber!

Back in the Second Chamber once again...hmmm! Let's try out the upper-left door this time. There's a Desert rose inside; and another door; go through the door, then slay the Garbost; when your done head downstairs and move the statue so it blocks the eye on the wall from seeing you; this means that the door will not close, so you may now continue into the next chamber. There's some spike and another switch in this room; and not to mention another Lamia waiting to harm you. First things first, give the switch a good whack using your sword, kill off the Lamia using some magic spells; and finally enter the southern door. Now head downstairs and kill the monster, follow the short passage and get out the arrows; make sure you hit all of the levers, and if you do; the platforms will join together to make the floor more stable. The door which follows has some more monsters, the place is so small that keeping away from them would be a difficult task; so dispose of them in the only way possible, then head through the door which follows to find a chest containing a Fury Ribbon!

To continue, you had better clear the Northern wall; just place a bomb near the cracked area and head inside; it looks as though you can't go any further but you could try walking forwards; and just to your luck, there's a switch that can get rid of those pillars, however...when you clear the area where the Pillar's used to be, it looks as though you trapped. There's a Vampire in this room and there's also, two switches, before you can go any further, chop down the vines on the wall; and fire an arrow in both eyes. The block above you will fall down, and just to make life easier; the block manages to fall on the switch below; so you can continue. Now, Before you go downstairs, you should cut the vines behind the staircase, to reveal another eye, and once again, fire an arrow, walk back a few paces and whack the switch, and there's only one more switch to hit; and that one is down the stairs; so head into the staircase and through the door, into a small room with an unreachable, Blue Chest. Solving the next puzzle can be hard, but I will tell you; first of all, jump in the warp portal and move the block onto the right switch. Now go back into the portal, and stand on the area where the switch used to be in the previous version of this room; you should have started a bridge. Now head back in the warp portal and move the block onto the Left switch; do exactly the same and you should be able to cross the bridge; the Blue Chest contains the Dankirk Key. I assume you want to hit the final switch, so jump in the warp portal, move the block back onto the tile, and cross one of the bridges which appear, the final switch is right in front of you, give it your best shot and voila, no more spikes on the second floor!

With the dismissal of the spikes, the stairs are now accessible, so you have the chance to proceed...let's start with the monsters, an assassin and some strange Dragon creature known as the armoured dait....the assassin will catch you so he's unavoidable, but the Dait will be simple to avoid, if you hug the bottom wall for a little, you should find a secret passage, leading to some treasures, A Dragon Egg...Flame Jewel and a Figgoru Tool...all of them will be useful right now...you should give Lexis the weapon and Guy the Jewel. Now jump on the switch a few paces right of the door, and enter the door you just opened. Inside, walk over the bridge and be aware of the shadow; he ain't too friendly, and when he attacks you; physical attacks won't harm him to much; to get rid of him, use spells such as Fireball, Bolt and Vortex; and if you have any IP techniques ready; try out Dive and Frenzy. Well, you outta kill the assassin too, it will make you feel much better inside!

After the dangerous monsters, open the manhole which currently has a piece of mesh covering it; go inside and by all means pull the lever. Now, go upstairs and grab the pillar to the right using the hook; you will be attacked by an assassin; and a little further up is a Shadow. Head down the stairs to reach the fourth floor and heal your party in the room which follows, and this may also be a good time to make a save. Go inside the next room and take out the vampire; keep going...there's another door, head inside and walk across the bridge; kill the assassin and fire an arrow at the lever switch to make yet another bridge appear before you; be brave and walk across, there's a puzzle to solve...I won't bother with a strategy, just make sure the blocks cover the tiles. When the blocks are arranged correctly, walk across the bridge that just appeared and avoid the armour dait, go inside the door and kill of the monsters in the next room; there's a staircase here; so go downstairs so you end up on the fifth floor. Let's fight the monsters here, but make sure you use some healing spells pretty often, and just to make life even better; do exactly the same in the room which follows, and finally use the Dankirk Key to access the Boss door, go inside and....well...um..be scared; five shadows are blocking your path; be very, very careful, use all your best magic spells, especially Fireball and Bolt; some battles will be long and you may feel the "Vile Laughter" technique quite frequently, just beat them using strategy and you win! When your done, go through the Northern door and into the next chamber....!

More Monsters! In fact there's a whole load of monsters in rooms which follow and that means loads o' battles. When you reach the final room, there's some guy named Prince Klaus and another man known as James. Guy will introduce the who party, we have Guy as the "Invincible and Mighty warrior"..Maxim is known as the warrior of justice, Lexis is the Genius of the century, and Selan is the magical wife! Selan feels offended at Guy giving her a lame name; it does sound a little lame to me too, so I don't blame her; anyway, the lousy guards feel insulted, so you have a fight against four of the Prince's Pawns!

**Boss:** 4 × Soldiers · **HP:** 400 each

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ The Boss is a joke, okay, so there's four soldiers, but each one of them will go down in two or three hits; just have your whole party use physical attacks because Magic isn't too effective here; and most of you team will have some good weapons; if you want to end their lives even quicker, have someone use some Ikari techniques such as Dive and Frenzy, preferably Guy and Maxim. Soon after the soldiers are dispatched, you can claim 10,000 experience points and 4,000 GP......'.'

Oh! your not going to get a way with this, or so that's what Klaus reckons; I might as well say that you won't need to use the escape spells, as you will automatically be take to the castle; with James following closely behind; the King is a little cross with him and he has decided to lock him up for a while and the Queen Finally gets her mitts on the Ruby Icon; while the King and Queen are happy, outside we have a love scene involving Prince Leon and Princess Thea; or that's what it looks like, she does want to give Leon the ruby icon back, but he turns down her offer; true love...!

Well! There's not much left to do here, but if you couldn't afford the stuff at the weapon shop before, now would be a good time to buy some; when your done with this area, leave town and jump in your ship! Now..the next place of interest is a town called the Ferim Kingdom; so speak to Leon in his home town and allow him to assist you, now go through the Water Gate, and sail to the closest Southern land mass available, on the nearest Land mass is another castle, enter the place and your here, you've now arrived at the castle of the Ferim Kingdom...'.'
