<a id="s4-51"></a>

## 4.51. Ferim Kingdom

**MAIN GOALS** Get some Level 3 spells for Maxim-Selan-Lexis! Hear about an uneasy force in the Northern Tower!

Ferim is another indoor town; with only a castle to show for it's buildings; yeah, this place is a lot like the Bound Kingdom and the weapons shops are a bit of a let down. The main shop in this place has to be the Magic store; go inside and check their spells, we have some level 3 magic spells here, and we can also get hold of the Champion spell; a great spell for healing! Lexis is not going to be in your team for the final stages of the game, so don't spend all your hard earned cash on him alone; try to make sure Maxim and his wife, Selan, get the Ice.Valk and Champion spells; in addition to this you should buy the Firebird spell too; all the spells are costly, but that's not much to worry about, you should be pretty well off at this time in the game!

Weapons are next, we ain't got much of a choice due to the poor stock of the weapon store, you should get Selan and Maxim a Silvo Rapier each, and i would make sure Guy gets a spear....'.'..The armours are not too much to care about but if you need to have the latest armour, get Selan some Quilted Silk! While your in this place, you should look for a man named Hans; he should be fairly easy to find, after you begin the conversation with this dude, he will start talking about Gades and the Sinistrals, he feels kinda' lucky because he has met Maxim and co. Hans wants to get his mits on a strange Gem from the tower; but he has a major sinistral problem, if you speak to the prince and his mate you will learn that Hans may have a horrible time in that tower, and by all accounts, he's only a common soldier; let's head for the Northern Tower; just walk out of Ferim and head across the bridge, now head in the North-East Direction and enter the tower..'.'..
