<a id="s4-52"></a>

## 4.52. North-East Tower

**MAIN GOALS** Follow Hans, and run into the Sinistral of Chaos! Get your mitts on the Trial Key, so you can get the stone!

Items -> Stun Gun, Trial Key, Samu Jewel, Mysto Jewel,

Hans, the swordsman you met five minutes ago, has decided to find the Jewel for his friend, the Prince! Maxim on the other hand, has much more important matters to attend to. Upon entering this tower, go through the door and kill the Dark spirits; there's a weak wall, so get out the hammer and smash it to pieces. Go inside the new hole you just created, and follow the one way path until you find a statue and some pillars. Use the hammer to push the statue; and take out the hook from your bag o' tricks; make your way across the pit and head outside. Now climb the ladder and enter the Left door, there's a lever switch to move the platform backwards and forwards; before you pull the lever, whack the arrow switches; the lever will move the platform on the right side of the room; so exit through the way you came, go through the door to the right this time, and proceed through the Northern door, into a small chamber with some Hidora's; this monster can cause a great deal of physical damage to all party members, so it would be better if you used some level 3 magic spells in this situation!

When the Hidora loses all it's heads, go through the door which follows and kill the Ninja's; these are much faster than your party, so be prepared for a little damage before you can start a full force attack; the Samurai's are the same, the only difference is the fact that you will be faster than them; when you've defeated the monsters; go to the left side of this room, open the treasure box to receive the Stun Gun for Lexis, and be sure to get this tool equipped, it's way better than the Superdriver. There's a door near the chest so go inside, head upstairs and take out the Ninja, now follow the path outside the tower; and go down the ladder, go through the door and take a look at the puzzle; it is fairly tricky to work out at first; but it's no different to the puzzles you solved in the past; if you follow my solution for this puzzle; you should end up on the right track....'.'

Start from the rear end of this puzzle, or should I say the end nearest the Northern door...'.'

Solution = D-D-D-D-D-L-L-U-U-R-U-U-L-L-D-R-D-L-D-D-R-D

Now you can enter the door, do not cross the puzzle area, unless you want to reset the puzzle you've just solved!

After a fun puzzle, you should be inside a room with some stairs, if you go downstairs, be sure to kill the Mad head and take the Trial Key from the blue treasure box. You won't find anything else to do inside this room, so go back several doors and make sure you end up in the room with the moving platform as well as some arrow switches to strike! On the right side of the room, you will have to hit the arrows so you can actually use the lever properly, when both arrow switches are activated; pull the lever and enter the door to the left; walk up the stairs and go inside another chamber; be prepared for a hard puzzle this time, so put your thinking cap on if you don't wish to cheat using my solution...'.'

There's a few treasures to obtain here, so let's begin with the Samu Jewel; I will give you the proper directions. Walk onto the first tile and don't even think about whacking the switch, you will be taken to another platform, so go onto the second platform and get off at another platform with a Samu jewel in a Red Treasure Box...'.'

Next we will get hold of the Mysto Jewel, this is fairly simple, from the Samu Jewel platform, jump on the tile and whack the switch on the platform which follows, leap onto another tile and allow it to take you to another platform with two switches, hit the southern switch and jump on the tile nearby, it should move Maxim and co. onto the platform with a Mysto Jewel!

When it comes to reaching the exit, you need to start off on the Northern Platform with the stairs; make sure the arrow switch is pointing south and jump onto the tile, when the tile reaches the desired destination, do not go on the platform; instead, turn Maxim around so he's facing North and give the switch a slap with your trusty blade, you will be taken backwards; so you can reach the Southern door. Now head inside, and be prepared to take on a few monsters; and beware of the Ninja, I sorta over-looked this before but the Ninja's can use an attack called Knife-Thrower, and it cause at least 70 points of damage to all party members!

After taking out the Ninja's and ripping apart the samurai's go through the southern door and up the ladder outside this tower, there's a door here, so go inside and use the Trial Key to enter the boss door; before you can fight a boss, you always have to solve a puzzle! This one can be tricky, because you need to have both monsters standing on the switches, of course you can actually stun them, but it takes a little time and patience to get them on the switches; if you manage to succeed, try entering the door in as few steps a humanly possible, if you don't the monsters will move, and you will have to trap them a second time..'.'

In the door which follows the previous puzzle room, you will find Hans, he seems to be paralyzed by a strange force, Maxim and the other have an idea what the force might be; it's much stronger than Gades! Suddenly a sinistral comes, and it just happens to be AMON the Sinistral of Chaos, and to our interest, Amon is a fairly honorable Guy, he doesn't want Hans to be ashamed with himself because it's normal for people to not move in such a powerful form of waves, but he takes one look at Maxim, and I would say he's impressed by his powers! Guy being a bit of a hard head wants to have a go at Amon, he attacks with all his might, Amon smashes him into a corner and says nothing to mock him; he only says "Don't throw your lives away" he wants to show you true terror later..! When Amon leaves, Guy will get up and the party will follow Hans into the last room, the stone is here; but it is no more than a simple blue stone with no decent value whatsoever. Hans believe that this is what he is looking for and he nicks off back to the castle, so cast "Escape" and follow him...'.'

Back in the castle of Ferim, you can see an interesting scene in the Throne Room, Hans give the stone to the prince; the stone is just a miserable pebble says the Prince, and just when a moment of trouble occurs, there's some one to bail him out; oh, dear what shall we do, let's fob the Princess off with a quality sapphire instead! The Princess is not impressed, she wants the real deal, and just to give this story a happy ending, here comes Hans with his miserable pebble; the Princess is shocked and it seems that it's a relic of their childhood. Looks as though Hans won the heart of the Princess, she is really happy and once again it's all thanks to Maxim and co. When all is said to be over a soldier barges in, it seems that the town of Agurio has been demolished by a Golden Man; could be Amon I suppose! You need directions too I suppose, okay, head for the small shrine North of the previous tower, and jump in the warp portal, head out of the shrine and into the beaten up town of Agurio, and be prepared for something a little more drastic than Gordovan!
