<a id="s4-55"></a>

## 4.55. Portravia

**MAIN GOALS** Check out the Kirmo Lab, and learn about Submarines! Get the latest Level three spells, Thunder, Valor and Dragon!

This is a Larger town with some cool spells on offer; and the weapons in this place are pretty good too; to begin with, let's go to the magic shop; while your in town, make sure you get Maxim the Valor spell, he is the main warrior after all and he can do some major healing with this spell; although Maxim is your first priority, every spell in this store would be useful for Selan, she would be best suited for every spell available! Lexis on the other hand, will not need to have any level three spells, because you are going to lose him in a few hours time; if you have the cash you could buy him some of the spells; but again this is not essential.

Weapons are another delicacy in this place, you sure could use a Rainy Ax for Guy, well...it's an Ax just like the description says, but it has good attack power advantage over a Spear. Lexis would be better off with a Battledriver; and Selan would feel loved with a Pounder rod in her possession. Don't bother upgrading your armours, you have good enough equipment already; when you've finished shopping, put your skates on an head for Kirmo's Laboratory in the Northern area of Town!

Prof.Kirmo's Lab isn't full of traps and in this case, he has staff to work for him, in this place you will find a green haired man, standing in front of some water. Go over and speak to this dude and he will explain how far he has gone with the Submarine project; Lexis opens his big gob, and Kirmo wants to remodel Excerion, your beloved vessel, say yes when he asks, because you will need a submarine later; when he asks for the blue prints however, some little elf child nicks them, causing the scientist to make a fool of himself, just because the Elven Thief is too quick for him....we need those plans, so let's go find the elf girl...'.'

An Innocent bystander mentions a female friend, and he's a kid, so it's got to be the Elf Girl, she has nicked off to a place called the Mountain of no return....don't know why? but their's a good reason when you find her; this girl runs around quick, so it will take a while to catch her! The Mountain of no return is south-east of Portravia, so head east a few paces, and head for the Southern mountain, and use the trail of forest area to make the path clearer to you.
