<a id="s4-57"></a>

## 4.57. Eserikto

**MAIN GOALS** Get your mitts on the Fry Spell! Amon, the sinistral of Chaos...Gain Information! Upgrade your weapons and purchase some Ex-Arrows!

Eserikto, the Elven village, a nice little place with some good gear on offer and not to mention, Artea's hometown. The first area of interest is the Magic Shop, this sells a useful Holy elemental spell "FRY" it costs exactly 40,000 Gold coins, but you have to get this, save your pennies up and you will have the first Holy magic spell, which is as strong as Firebird and Thunder, the only difference is the fact that it's HOLY magic!

After the spell shop, we have a weapon store, Maxim and Artea should be given a Crazy Blade each and Guy should have a Trident. When it comes to armours; I wouldn't bother giving anything to Artea, he does have all the latest gear after all, but if it's any constellation; Maxim and Guy should be given Plate Armor's and Selan would look good in an evening robe, as for helmets, Selan would suit a Gold Band; and as far as shields go, the Gold Shield would be a fair choice for Guy and Maxim. When you have the equipment, you should go to some of the previous towns to pick up some of those older spells for Artea; I would also get a few Ex-Arrows too, never know when you'll need them...'.'

After the shopping trip is over, their's not much to do in this town, but you may want to gain some information on Amon, and what the people of this town saw with their own eyes. When you are finished in this place, go out of the village, and head south-west; you will come to a tower, where Karyn is being held captive, so make sure you have a rest at the free inn while your in Eserikto...Let's be on our way, equip your stuff, and enter the Shrine!!
