<a id="s4-58"></a>

## 4.58. Divine Shrine

**MAIN GOALS** Hunt' down Amon and save Milka's Mother, Karyn! Search for a status boosting portal!

Items -> Heart Key, Revive Armour, Rocket Ring, Dragon Egg, Holy Whip

Amon is the Sinistral of Chaos, he has Karyn captive on the top floor of this shrine; and reaching her will be a challenging task; which Maxim, Guy, Selan and Artea will take! Upon entering, head through the door and dispose of the monsters here; the Brinz Lizard is fairly easy, but the Red Plant's can be tough, with their ability to attack one of your characters, three time in a row; this can be devastating for Selan, so be careful. When both monsters hit the ground, head up the stairs and take a look around the room. Yes! we can see several pillars to grab, but most importantly, these pillars allow you to get your mitts on some cool treasures; now follow the instructions I give you and collect all the treasures available...'.'

» The First treasure to be acquired is the Heart Key; so get out the hook and aim for the upper-right pillar, then grab the pillar to the right, then the upper pillar and then the upper left pillar, and when your that far, you can finally grab the pillar to your left to gain access to the stairs. Upstairs you will find an Iron Gorem, kill him and enter the Northern door; once your inside, you should open the Blue Chest, and grab your first treasure in this shrine; the Heart Key!

» To obtain your second treasure, head back to the entrance staircase and use the hook to reach the platform to your left; now go upwards and left again, a statue is on the platform above you, so grab the statue and move it upwards until you can't move it any further. Next, aim your hook at the accessible left platform, grab the pillar and hook onto another pillar below you, follow the path around and you will come to a statue, you should move the statue so you can follow the Narrow path below you, at the end of the narrow path, grab the lower statue, the head for the left platform and finally head upwards and up the stairs which follow, inside the small room, you will find a revive armour. Equip this on Guy so his defense and Magic resistance will improve a little, then head back to the entrance staircase!

» Last of all, we have Rocket Ring...As you've done before, aim the hook for the upper-right pillar, and go for the pillar to your right; grab the next upper-right pillar and jump across the gap, by hooking onto the statue. Now move the statue as far North as possible; and head downwards and back across the gap you just cleared, and hook the lower pillar. Now you need to aim the hook at the upper-left pillar, so fly across the gap and grab the pillar to your left, walk upwards and you should see two pillars with one space between them, and to your right, there's another pillar, so again use the hook to throw yourself over the gap and then grab the statue you moved a few seconds ago. Now, hook the pillar to the right, and follow the narrow path up the stairs and dispose of the monster. Grab one of the upper-left pots to reveal a switch, and turn in the downwards direction; drop the pot and head over the spikes. Now go up the stairs and take the Rocket Ring from the chest, you can also jump down from here using the arrow; when you're done with picking up treasures go back to the room with the pots and lift the pot in the lower right corner of the room, it looks like you've stumbled upon a weak patch on the floor. Let's fall down and see whats happens....'.'

Look's like your on a small platform, the first bit's simple, just aim the Hookshot at the pillar on the western platform; when you make it across, walk downwards until you reach the end of the Narrow path and use the hook once again to access a western platform. Do the same again, and follow the pillars one at a time, in a kind of Anti-Clockwise pattern. Now, go down those stairs and follow the path into a room with a Red Flower monster. Kill this fiend using Fire elemental spells and head through the door, while your in here you should exterminate the Brinz Lizard; when you've finally got used to Killing monsters, off you go into the next chamber; and hey! whats this..we have some Torches lighting themselves up as we walk along the Hallway; yes it's strange and I have no idea what these things are doing. If you can, just ignore them and proceed into the next room; now we have to fight some weird snake monster and I haven't checked to see what they are called yet; just kill the lousy thing, head into the next room and storm the Gargoyles. Now it's time to get your arrows out, you are going to need them after all; there seems to be a switch on the Northern wall; so fire an arrow right in its core, and watch as the platform moves into the western area of the room; taking you to some more monsters. This time we have found a new monster, it's a Tartona and these creatures have a good chance of dropping Earth Jewels, so kill them whenever possible; there's also an Iron Gorem here too; turn him into dust and enter the door which follows; prepare for a battle against some Cocktoris; these can drop Life Potions which can be useful to increase your HP stats. Whenever you get these potions be sure to use them on Maxim or Artea, these guys are fighters so they need lots of HP's.

Funs Over, so go through the door and follow the spooky passage until a wall collapses; now keep on going and head up the stairs, you will find some more monsters and a weak wall, as well as another door. Use your instincts here and blow up the wall, go through the new hole and prepare to solve a music puzzle, this is fairly simple and you won't need me to solve this; but for those of you who want to solve this with ease..I will help you! To make life a tad easier, I have given each tile a number, and these numbers will be arranged from Left to Right. The order of these tiles is 3-2-4-1-5; and that will make all the spikes vanish; it will also allows you to reach a treasure box, which contains the seventh dragon egg; and I've found there's another little secret in this place, why don't you smash the wall above using your hammer, you never know..it may reveal a hidden treasure; it's a Holy Whip! Just a nice little gift for the lovely lady, so equip this on Selan; and see how much her attack power rises; you won't need another weapon for a while now, so be pleased with your discovery...!

Selan should be happy with the new weapon, and you can freely kill some of the enemies back in the room before the music puzzle; as you can recall there is a door, so go inside and prepare to fight two lots of Gargoyles; and Rogue shapes which seem to be always with them. When the monsters die, go inside the door at the end of this passageway; as you can see this is a boss door and inside you will face a simple puzzle. Just get the Hammer out and move the statues onto the tiles, when both tiles are covered, be prepared for a shocking scene; enter the door and meet up with "AMON" The sinistral of Chaos and the most dangerous sinistral around for the time being.

AMON has got Karyn trapped, he wants her to open the door so he can gain some more power; and because she's a brave elf like Artea, the Girl will not give into Amon's demands. Karyn will unleash her power and it looks as though she did manage to wound Amon; she was strong but she couldn't control the powers within her, and this ended up costing her own life. Karyn manages to tell her

friend to look after Milka when she's gone, and the thought of Karyn being killed by the likes of Amon makes Artea really angry, and because of this; the young elf wants a piece of the Sinistrals; so he'll join your Doom Island team in search of the Dual Blade and the Four Sinistrals, Gades, Amon, Erim and Daos. Karyn is gone, but she has left the Northern door wide opened. In this room you will find a strange portal; and in this case, it will boost all your stats a little; that's good, and when you get this bonus, you should use the Escape spell and then you should use the "Warp" spell to get back to the Elven Village of Eserikto in the space of a few seconds!!
