<a id="s4-6"></a>

## 4.6. Lake Cave

**MAIN GOALS** Negotiate with the Catfish! Collect the Insect Crush weapon! Obtain the Lake Key!

**Items:** Insect Crush, Power Potion, Lake Key, Speed Ring, Miracle

First of all, hit the switch to your left with an arrow, then throw the all the crates into the risen water to create a bridge, and proceed through the door, into the next room. Inside you will find two doors, first you must take the one to your right, which leads you into a room containing a few monsters. This room is infested with monsters, but to get any further in this cave, you should kill them all; and you will soon notice three monsters, hiding behind the spikes. This is a puzzle, to succeed, you must fire arrows at them in the correct order; the correct order is -> Frog, Beetle, Eagle..!

After you've solved that little puzzle, you will have triggered the opening of the door, to the right. Keep going through doors till you get to a chest containing a weapon formally known as the "Insect Crush"; which without any doubt, should be equipped. After receiving the new weapon, backtrack all the way back to the second room of this cave, which had a Blue Jelly and another monster inside. This time, proceed through the Left door; and cut down most of the bushes; until you get to a weak floor; see the ascii drawing below..!

```
-------------  "In order to activate a secret switch, you must fall through
  ¦   ¦   ¦   ¦   the square of the weak floor, shown in the diagram; and you
  -------------   should know by now, that - × - always, marks the spot"
      ¦ × ¦   ¦
      ---------
```

After falling through the floor, you will trigger the opening of the door to your right; which for the time being should be ignored. First of all, you may want to obtain some treasures, so head up the steps and proceed to the right till you come to a choice between, two doors. Lurking inside the door to the South, you will find an eagle monster; as well as a chest containing a Power Potion. The Northern door leads you into a room with more doors; this time a few switches will be used to decide which of the two doors stays opened. The one to the North, will lead you into a room with various monsters, as well as a few treasures, and the south door leads you to the Lake Key.

First of all, take the door to the North, to open this door; you need both of the statues on the two upper switches; like the ascii diagram shows...!

```
---------
  ¦ × ¦ × ¦  "This will open the Northern door"
  ---------
  ¦   ¦
  -----
```

Inside the Northern door, follow the path and halt at the door; through the door, you will have to fight loads of monsters, in order to get a Speed ring; which should be equipped straight away. After collecting the treasure, head out of the narrow tunnel and head to the right a little more. You will find loads of bushes; all of which need a good trimming. After cutting down all of the bushes, you should head north and hug the wall to the left; you will soon enter a secret room, where you can obtain a valuable Miracle potion.

After obtaining both treasures; backtrack into the previous room, and setup the switches, so that the statues are together vertically; like you can see in the ascii diagram below...!

```
---------
  ¦ × ¦   ¦ "This will open the Southern door"
  ---------
  ¦ × ¦
  -----
```

After setting the switches up properly, you will gain access to the Southern door. When you enter the southern door, you will find four blocks; check the bottom right block, to reveal a secret staircase. Inside the new room, you will find another puzzle; this time you need to make a triangle that points to the North, out of the blocks. Look at the diagram below...!

Before -=-=-= "The blocks marked with an '×' should be moved; you should move those blocks in order to make the next diagram"

```
---------------------                   After
  ¦ × ¦   ¦   ¦   ¦ × ¦                   -=-=-
  ---------------------
      ¦   ¦   ¦   ¦                            -----
      -------------                            ¦ × ¦
          ¦ × ¦                            -------------
          -----                            ¦   ¦   ¦   ¦
                                       ---------------------
                                       ¦ × ¦   ¦   ¦   ¦ × ¦
                                       ---------------------
```

Next, you can proceed through the opened door; this time you will find only a Blue chest; which contains the "Lake Key". You now have the key to the boss chamber, so why not use it; from your current position, backtrack all the way to the room with the door you ignored. This time enter that door; then make a bridge using only three of the log crates. Next, pick up the other log crate and cross the new bridge; dump the log crate onto some water and activate the switch by pushing the lever to the left. Upon pressing the switch, the water level will rise; if everything was done to plan, you should be able to pick up the log crate once again; and use it to make a very small bridge in order to reach the ladder. Up the ladder, you will see the boss door; but just to gain a little more experience; you might as well kill the baby frog nearby.

Inside the boss room, you will see the Catfish; he will pop out of the water; and will laugh at Maxim, when he asks for the Earthquakes to stop. The battle will start, and you can now start fighting for real...!

**Boss:** Catfish · **HP:** 200

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ First of all, the Catfish attacks with two spells; mainly "Flash" and "Mega Quake", of which Flash really hurts. When your HP gets below 50; you should always heal, that nasty Flash spell can do 40+ points of damage. If you are going to win this battle, don't bother with the "Droplet" spell; it seems the Catfish has good defense against that type of Magic. First of all, you should keep attacking with Physical attacks; when he uses that horrid "Flash" spell, you should cast "Strong"; which should heal around 30-40 HP. After around 8 normal hits, the Catfish will be "Cat food". When the Catfish is defeated you will receive; 500 experience and 500 Gold, which isn't too bad.

The Catfish has decided to stay underwater for a while; so I guess Sundletan won't have any more Earthquake troubles. All you need to do in this area, is complete a few story events; but first of all, find your way out of this cave and head back to the village of Sundletan!
