<a id="s4-60"></a>

## 4.60. Barnan

**MAIN GOALS** The usual stuff, upgrade your weapons and armours! Learn about the undersea shrine, a.k.a the Shrine of Vengeance!

- **offer within the shop's of this town! Let's begin with the weapons, first of**
  - all, make sure you get Guy a Halberd and Maxim a Red Saber; the Red Saber has
  - a powerful IP technique and the Halberd is another strong spear for Guy; when
  - it comes to Selan, you will not need any new weapons due to the power of her
  - Holy Whip...As for Artea, he should probably have a Crystal Wand, although if
  - you want stronger attack power, you could always get a Mist Rapier for him; I
  - would stick with the wand, because Holy Power is better than Water Power in
  - my opinion. Now, make sure you have at least 200,000GP and prepare to do some

The Armour here is good, for Guy and Maxim, you can buy both of them, a Plati Plate, a Plati Helmet and a Plati Shield....and I think "Plati" is short for Platinum, so don't be alarmed at the stupid name. Selan and Artea both need a Silk Robe each, so make sure you get them one and you can also get them both some Platinum Gloves and a Platinum Band. Upon equipping your new gear, walk around town a little and get acquainted with the people; gain some info on the Shrine of Vengeance, and most residents here will start moaning about the monsters in the place. Well! you have a submarine, so exit the town and sink down into the ocean, look for a small hole on the sea bed and go inside, you will wind up in a small passage under the sea, go forwards into the whirlpool to enter the Shrine of Vengeance!!!
