<a id="s4-61"></a>

## 4.61. Shrine of Vengeance

**MAIN GOALS** Obtain two valuable treasures! Acquire the Ghost Key, other wise your in trouble! Destroy the Vengeance Ghost!

Items -> Power Robe, Heal Armour, Ghost Key, Bright Armour, Evil Jewel, Cursed Bow

After docking the submarine, you should head up the stairs, inside the room which follows you should find two switches and a lever. The lever will only work if both switches have been hit once, so whack them both with the sword and pull the lever to reveal a door on the left side of the room; you need to open the door so change the Red switches colour to Green; in other words give the thing a good whack with your sword. The door should have opened leaving you with the entrance to the next chamber; so enter the door you have just opened and take out the monster; it's a T-Rex and these little devils can cause large amounts of damage to your team. When you have defeated the T-rex monsters, you are obliged to go inside the next room. Now it's time for an easy puzzle; make sure you have the hammer ready and launch it at the statue on the western platform, it should knock it back a pace. Instead of going down some stairs, which lead to a whole hoard of monsters, jump across the pit using the Hook and enter the door, go down the stairs and you should be in a room with some Hades chariots and some wizards, the Hades creatures are weak against Holy magic, so the Crystal Wand should come in Handy at this moment in time. When you manage to take out both monsters, head upwards and follow the path in a clockwise direction, then enter the door, so you can be inside the next chamber.

The next room has a pot and a switch with a monster standing in the eastern area of the room; here you must trap the monster within the spikes; as you can see, there's one square without spikes, that is where you have to trap the monster, to trap the monster stun it first and place the pot onto the switch to make to form a wall of spikes around the monster. The monster's weight should trigger the opening of the Southern door; now enter the door to the south and have a battle with some Nosferatus and then a Hade Chariot; make sure you use Holy spells to kill them quickly, then head downstairs to continue. In the small chamber which follows, you will most likely be fooled into entering a door; but you need to pull some lever to continue; so head east of the stairs and you should reveal a secret passage leading to a lever switch; so pull the lever and proceed through the door in the previous area!

In the proceeding room, jump down the arrow on the side of the cliff and DO NOT! go through the eastern door. Just head in the western direction, get rid of the Nosferatu and fiend; stand on the tile; get the arrows out and shoot one in the western direction to make a bridge fall from above...Now walk over the bridge and deal out the Hook Skill; aim it at the Northern Pillar and you should be on a platform with a chest, open the treasure box to obtain a Power Robe for Artea..or Selan! The Power Robe is much better than the Silk Robe as it is stronger in defense and it has a cool Ikari Technique. Now use the Hook Skill to get down off the upper platform and dispose of the enemies within this area; the fiend is fairly strong, so are the Nosferatu's, but to your advantage, these creatures are weak against Holy elemental magic spells and weapons, so your gonna be pleased because both Artea and Selan are equipped with Holy Weapons...!

When the monsters have gone, head up the steps and enter the proceeding door; There's a fiend in the next chamber, take him out, then push both the statues into some water, this should make the water in the Southern pool rise causing the torches to loose their right to burn...when this happen's the warp tile is also accessible. If you jump into the warp pool..you come to a very small room with an opened door; hey! you've been here before; now! head back to the very first room of this Shrine; and be prepared for a few battles on the way!

You should be back in the room with the two switches; make sure you hit both of the switches once; and pull the lever to make the wall slide along to the western wall. Now hit the eastern switch and destroy all the monsters in the proceeding chamber, then go through the door and exterminate a few more monsters, this time you get to fight some Dark Warriors and some demise have joined the Battalion; so take them out with Holy Magic, and your best spells to make things quicker; when your done head for the staircase in the western area of this room. Go up the stairs and through the door which follows, take out all the monsters imprisoned in the next two rooms and blow up the wall in second room, this should leave you with a choice of two holes; if you use the eastern hole, you can pick up a valuable Heal Armour; and just to your luck, the western hole allows you to continue. In the western hole you will find another monster and a locked door, and because of me being tired; the Key is not in your possession, and I forgot to explain how to obtain it; all you need to do is head backwards a few rooms, and make sure you end up in a room with a warp tile...The room also has a Demise and a Dark Warrior; in that particular room, you will find another staircase which I failed to mention before...Down those stairs you will find some coloured blocks and a switch; the switch is on Red as a default colour so move the Red Blocks onto the tiles to make some of the spikes disappear; now give the switch a slap and do the same for the Blue Blocks, all the spikes will be gone, and you can freely take the treasure from the Blue Chest, the Ghost Key..sorry bout' that too, I really messed up bad; but hey I will be rewriting parts while I update this guide; it will just take a little longer for you to complete this dungeon that's all! Anyway, be sure to head back to the locked boss door..and by all means go inside...and up the stairs of course...'.'

With the Ghost Key in your possession you managed to enter the boss door; and you have entered a large room with an elevating platform; so head in the southern direction and you should walk onto the platform, it will take you to the eastern part of this room, and when you arrive on the eastern platform; I recommend you go up the stairs and into the next chamber. Now head through the proceeding door and kill of the Hades Skull; blow up the broken pillars and blow up the skull which follows, now stand on the area where the skull used to be; you should fall down into the room below. This time you can see a ladder and a large wall which will not stand for much longer; so dispose of the wall by using bombs as a Catalyst to speed up the falling reaction, and head up the falling ladder; and up the stairs; in the next chamber head up some more stairs and enter the door in the following room; now head in the western direction, blow up the small crack on the wall, and keep going up the staircases until you find an Evil Jewel; you can break the curse on this a little later, for now head back into the previous room and blow up another wall to reveal a Bright armour! The armour is very strong, so give it to Guy or Maxim. Now! go back down a few staircases, and enter the hole...this time head in the eastern direction and get out the hammer, you can make the pillar smash so it forms a platform; one good bash from your hammer should solve the problem in no time. The platform falls and you will most likely have to fight a Hades Chariot, so turn him into dust and continue in the eastern direction; head through the door....now kill the wizard, and move the block around onto the carpet to flatten the wrinkles; you should have opened another door. Now go inside, Heal and Save; so you are prepared for the forthcoming boss, make sure you have your Holy weapons ready and go inside the door....now you have to face....VENGEANCE GHOST!!!

**Boss:** Vengeance Ghost

**HP:** 7,500 · **Weakness:** Holy

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Scary..huh! This big bad ghostie can cause some nice damage with his Level 3 magic spells such as Firebird and Thunder; these can do 100 or more damage to a badly equipped party member, to avoid this try to take him out quickly, the attacks used in this battle are strange, but these will do justice. Let's do some serious damage to begin with, try using the IP technique of Artea's new Power Robe to do a whopping 2,745 damage and follow with the IP technique of the Heal armour to do a further 3,660 damage, what a laugh; if you have to cause even more hassle for him, you could get the remaining two characters to cast Valor for another 925 damage each....if Guy is one of those remaining 2 characters, he should attack as normal....After a simple, yet fun battle, you can claim a cool 20,000 experience and 50,000 Gold Coins...easy day or WHAT??

Jokes over now, the Vengeance Ghost has gone; so allow Artea to put the poor thing to rest and enter the Northern door. In this room you can get a Cursed Bow from the chest, and this will become "ARTY's BOW" when the curse is removed by a preacher from a church. Now cast "ESCAPE" and head back to Barnan, where you can deliver the good news to the villagers.
