<a id="s4-62"></a>

## 4.62. Story Events

**MAIN GOALS** Speak to Iris and take up her challenge! Get the Capsule monster known as "Zeppy"! Get the Capsule monster known as "Darbi"!

Items -> 2 × Secret Fruit

Battle has made you tired, but when you do get back to the town of Barnan; a strange green haired chick is waiting for you. You have met Iris on several occasions and this time she wants to see Maxim alone....she wants to ask him something..Selan will not allow this and says NO! in a "Fish Wife" Voice; is the bond between her and Maxim really that weak, does Selan trust him...???? Maybe we should prove this, let us go to the tower of truth and we may just know the true story to Maxim and Selan's relationship!

Well, I would get a few extra story events completed before going to another Tower...Let's warp back to Parcelyte, under the water you should find a small hole in the sea bed, it leads to some weird place called "Ue Mov Cave" That's a typo error, so I'm going to call the cave "Capsule Cave" Because it's home of another capsule monster called "Zeppy" and he's a Red Fish; now you should check all the whirlpools in this cave, ZEPPY can be found in one of them, and you can also acquire two secret fruits for feeding your monsters with...Don't miss them, you never know when you'll need them. There's a second capsule monster to get, so warp back to the town of Barnan, and sail in the western direction, until you come to a small island with a tree, now enter this tree and you should find a capsule monster to the North...it's Darbi the Myconido!

Iris wanted you to go to a town called Durale, that town is on a small island in the South-West Direction form the Tower of Vengeance. So let's be on our way, or and if it's any constellation, you could always visit Chead; some of the weapons in that place are better than whats on offer in Durale...but all of them are pretty expensive. Just sail to Durale for the time being....'.'
