<a id="s4-64"></a>

## 4.64. Tower of Truth

**MAIN GOALS** Locate the Mirror of Truth, and take the test o' love! Find out the true identity of Iris, and why she is with humans! Get the Super Sword for Selan...It's so cool!

Items -> Super Sword, Ghost Ring, Song Rock, Ghostclothes, Truth Key

Maxim and Selan, were these two lovers made for each other, or is the whole thing a Joke; is Tia suppose to be with Maxim...Is Selan mean't to have an affair with Guy! Until the truth is known, how can we be sure...so let's be on our way inside the Tower of Truth; where we will get all our answers. When you enter this place, you will come across a locked door, however you already have the Key for some strange reason...go inside, and destroy the Grianos and Seirein inside the next room; the Seirein are from the same family of fiends as the Medusa and Ramia's; they are pretty girls, but they are evil little fiends after your blood, so let us dispose of them quickly, then we can go inside the door which follows. The next room has a strange musical puzzle; you have to play the notes in the correct order, so stomp on the eastern switch, and take note of how those pillars are arranged...now copy this by using the Musical notes; stand on them in this order from left to right...so the order is...3-2-1-4...When the eastern door opens, go inside and take out the Sea Hidora, these Lil' devils can wreck havoc on your party so be really careful, and make sure you dispose of them quickly.. then enter the door and pull the lever in the room which follows..now go back a few rooms until you find the Seirein; try to avoid the monsters and blow up the weak wall, head through your new hole and jump over the pit so you can kill the Grianos and access another door..go inside and up some stairs which follow, and what do you come to? as if you didn't know already...More Monsters!

Damn..We have more Sea Hidora's, and another Seirein. Now! you should fight them, but avoiding them will also be a good idea, and you need to be in the Southern room, so do the honors and enter the door in the Southern Direction; now there's another Seirein, if you harm her in the least, she will call on four sea Hidora's when she dies and that's not too good...If you can avoiding he would be the best idea; otherwise get your strongest weapons equipped and prepare for some long battles. Whatever you decide to do, please head through the Southern door, so you can fight another Grianos; when he's six foot under enter the next chamber and take note of the strange metal rocks; you should have come across these rocks a while ago, and as you know these can stop you from reaching the door into the next chamber. So let us begin, first off get your Hook Skill ready, and thrust it at the switch to make some pillars rise; now launch the hook at the second Blue Pillar, so you will end up past the strange force, coming from the metal rock. Now launch your hook at the switch once again, and the Blue Pillar right next to you, should disappear. Let's get rid of the Red Pillar! Walk over to the switch and give it a slap; then finally, head through the door in order to proceed further!

The Outside area has various ladders, which take you to the Third, Fourth and Fifth floors of this tower. The third floor is where you need to be right now so only climb the first ladder, and enter the door...inside, use the Hook to reach the eastern platform, take out the Grianos and go into another door; be prepared for a few battles, and drop down through the weakened floor to reach the second floor of this tower; follow along the path and exterminate the odd few monsters here and there...make sure you blow up the wall and grab a super cool, wonderful, sparkling new weapon for the magical wife...it's the SUPER SWORD; get it equipped ASAP and blow up another weak wall, so you reveal yet another secret room...inside here, you should get the Hook Skill out and jump over the pit; you should then recognize this room, if you head through the Northern door there's a Seirein, and yes! she will summon four Hidora's when she dies, you had better ignore her in that case, and you should also enter the door, and after a few rooms you should be back at the ladders. Now! Head up two ladders, so you can reach the Fourth Floor!

Not much in the first small room, so enter the door and solve another Music Puzzle with the following inputs; 3-2-4-1-5..That shouldn't be hard, and if you need tips on how to reach the Fifth music tile; which just happens to be the one in the middle then...fire the Hook from in between the second and third music tile! The spikes will cease guard, so dispose of the monster and head downstairs, make sure you avoid any monsters on the way, and follow the one way path into a small room with some Pots, a crate and some switches! So move the eastern pot onto the eastern switch, and place the crate on the western switch, this will make the western door open, so head inside and exterminate the monster, go down those stairs and into a monster saturated chamber, now check the lower-right corner to find three chests containing the following items; a Ghost Ring, a Song Rock and some Ghostclothes; these aren't much to brag about, but these are treasures!

If you can survive the constant battles against the monsters, you should be able to reach a door in the upper-right corner of this room...go inside and follow this path, stop when you reach a room with some switches. Here's a puzzle for you..now! grab the pot and place it on the upper switch, then do the same for the crate, but you must make sure the crate is on the switch below the pot. Walk across the bridge and move the block so it covers the lower switch, and head back to the Door. Now grab the Pot for the second time, and walk a few paces in the eastern direction; then walk across the bridge, and place the pot onto the switch to reveal a new bridge, now go back for the crate, maneuver past the pot and place the crate onto the next switch along. Walk over to the block, and make sure it covers the upper switch; then grab the Crate once again, this time move it onto the southern switch, and soon after that place a bomb near it; while you cross the bridge and you should have created another bridge..so walk across, take out the monster and enter the door, inside you will find the Truth Key! After you've taken the Truth Key, head outside your current room, and move the blocks so you can get back to the area with all those monsters, in the room before you should have solved a puzzle, and this time you must place the pot onto the western switch, and the crate onto the eastern switch, so you can continue through the lower-right door; and if this is done correctly, the room should have a fake chest known as a MIMIC!

After the mimic, there's another door, inside you will find some pillars, so get out your hook and leap across the small gap onto the southern platform. Now, head up as many ladders as possible, and if you are on the top platform you should find a boss door, inside the proceeding room! Now, head through the Boss door, and go in and out a few rooms until you find Iris, when you get a choice of two doors, the upper door leads you to a save room, and the lower door allows you to continue...but when you do find Iris, you should be speaking to her; Selan and Maxim will follow her into the room of Truth, but you never even get to look in the mirror before three white dragons attack! So! It's a BOSS battle...!

**Boss:** 3 × White Dragon

**HP:** 600 each! · **Weakness:** Fire

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ How easy can a battle get; you have to fight three white dragons, and if you put Artea in front, he should hit all dragons at once with Arty's Bow....two attacks from this bow will see them off. The only dangerous thing here, is their Cold Stream attack, it hurts for a hundred or so damage..they can even heal themselves with their own version of the "Stronger" spell; but this may not ever happen! Your prize for winning is 12,000 experience and 14,460 Gold Coins, when your done watch the scene to find out the true Identity of Iris; Exit this place, using the escape spell; you also know of someone named Sir Arek; who is he??? Don't be thinking he's the final boss now! I think it would have been interesting if he was, but sadly their's someone else filling that position, you will find out soon enough!
