<a id="s4-67"></a>

## 4.67. Dragon Mountain

**MAIN GOALS** Solve the world's most Difficult Trick! Dispose of the "Fire Dragon" and rescue the elder!

Items -> Lizard Blow::::Legend Helm::::Holy Robe::::::Mega Shield:::: Magic Scale::::S.Mind Ring::::Kraken Rock::::Sonic Ring::::: S.Pro Ring:::::Hi.Power Ring::S.Witch Ring:::Angry Ring::::: Miracle × 2::::Gorgon Rock::::S.Power Ring:::S.Myst Ring::::

Being the most complex dungeon in the game, this place is home of the Fire Dragon, some rather upsetting Fire breathing Lizard who likes to cause severe pain to his victims...however the treasures scattered around this place seem to be quite useful! Upon arriving you will come across a door, do NOT enter the damn place, inside there's a lame warp tile which is unaccessible. Just head right of the first door, go around the mountain a little and take the second entrance...well, you will now be greeted by some powerful monsters; If you're feeling uneasy...give them a slap, otherwise ignore them and enter the door...so you wind up inside a room with some bushes arranged in an arrow shape..this is a puzzle and here is the solution!

# You will need BOMBS and FIRE ARROWS for this puzzle, so whip out the arrows to begin with and apply bombs a little later as shown in the diagram below!

F = Fire Arrow <> B = Bomb <> @ = Bush

i.) @ @ @ ii.) @ @ @ iii.) @ @ @ @ @ <- Maxim F F B B B B @ @ Starts @ @ B @ @ @ Here! @ @

After carrying out those three steps...you will gain access to the Northern door; inside there's a Sonic Ring up for grabs. Let's use the hook to reach the eastern platform...and if we are in an aggressive mood, we could even kill of a few monsters...after the decision has been made; go down those stairs and locate a quick escape route, to keep well away from the fiends approaching you....so walk down more stairs and waste the Hidora monster; whip out the hook and lunge across the pit; then lower the Behemoth onto the weakened floor along with yourself....CRASH! there it goes, and just to your advantage, you have two new paths to explore, however....only the lower path leads to an important area..(The upper path leads to a dead end)..!

The lower path leads to monsters, to begin with the Magma Gorem is a tough cookie, but there's a chance he may drop a useful Magma Jewel; the other monsters should be evaded at all costs....like I said earlier some monsters in this place are tough, especially the ones that breath fire....now! enter the door and head in the western direction; whip out the hook and lunge across the drop....keep moving! Head through the door and down the stairs; if you keep going you will wind up inside a small room with a Crow, he's a monster as you can see. There's a door beneath you, so head inside; but be really careful with the monsters you scrap with...the Brokion's are really dangerous, you had better use the "Champion" Spell quite often...to evade these monsters however....you should use the Hook to stun the left monster for a while, when he's stunned you can carefully maneuver round the left side of him; when you're free of the attack zone....enter the southern door and Grab the "Magma Key" from the Blue Treasure Box!

With the Key in your clutches, head back into the room with Brokion's; kill a few and fall down the pit so you wind up inside a small chamber with a door and a warp tile, as you may have already guessed; this room was ignored a few minutes ago....just get out of the place and proceed to the second entrance you should take the third entrance! "3rd entrance you here me say"....well! that would be accessible if you keep going around the mountain...just head right and up the steps and voila! Use the Magma Key inside the Porch of the third entrance....you wind up in a Lava covered room, which would be rather scorching...you can see several Pillars; but reaching them is a puzzle, so I have a nice solution to help you...here goes...^_^

You need the Hook and the Hammer for this puzzle...I believe this will be a fun puzzle for you.....please note the following...!

Plus (+) stands for the Hammer, so wherever I've used a plus I mean use the Hammer to bash that particular statue.

Times (×) is used to represent the Hook....whatever you do in this game, you will have to use the Hook often...so this means "Lunge" across the Gaps!

+ RIGHT × RIGHT + UPWARDS × UPWARDS + DOWNWARDS × DOWNWARDS × RIGHT

Then walk upwards a little and....

× LEFT × DOWNWARDS + LEFT × LEFT × UPWARDS × UPWARDS

Claim the treasures....we have a Miracle Potion, a Precious Magic Scale and a useful Super Protection Ring...so lets move...

+ DOWNWARDS × DOWNWARDS + RIGHT × RIGHT × DOWNWARDS × RIGHT

The staircase should be just ahead....go up those stairs and head through the door which follows. You had better arm yourself with some Fire Arrows, these are essential to the completion of the puzzle up ahead! Now for the Solution; I have abbreviated all directions to save space!

The Abbreviations are as follows!

R = RIGHT TR = TURN RIGHT! L = LEFT TU = TURN UP!!!! U = UP TD = TURN DOWN!! D = DOWN TL = TURN LEFT!! F = FIRE AN ARROW!

Okay! That was so-so lets see the solution, here we go....

R-D-D-D-D-D-TL-F L-F D-R-TU-F L-L-L-L-TD-F U-F R-R-R-R-TU-F TD-F

L-L-TD-F R-R-TU-F L-U-TL-F D-L-TU-F TD-F R-R-TU-F

After the completion of the puzzle...you should be able to continue, so head through the door, up the steps outside, and through another door...this room has some stairs and a wall in Bad Shape, so apply a bomb to open the wall; as you can see the wall revives itself...you need to complete the worlds most difficult trick soon...the treasures are well worth the bother...I have to give you a few instructions before hand so place your Bombs in the following order...and for the record..."B" stands for Bomb!

B L-D-B R-R-B U-L-B L-B R-B R-B L

Well, the door should be opened...so go inside! Go down a few staircases and you should meet up with a Girl dressed like a Princess; If you have a low IQ like myself...you will not be able to solve this puzzle with ease...if you got an "A" Grade in Maths you might have a chance, i've still got a strategy for this puzzle, thanks to "Iron Knuckle" and "Simpleton" and this is rather complicated...however, there's no way I can make this simpler...so you will have to make do with this for the time being!

**@ THE WORLDz MOST DIFFICULT TRICK...'_'...**

Numbers, and directions....abbreviated ones of course...read the KEY and use the solution if needed; you will find this puzzle a real challenge; even if the solution is complicated...I will never make my own...I could simplify things to meet the readers decision...but other than that, this would be the work of a bloke named "Simpleton" and something from Iron Knuckle's Lufia 2 FAQ!

```
===============================================================================
!  0       = The Big Square Block with the Four Treasure Boxes!               !
!  1,2,3,4 = Rectangular Blocks! (Vertical)                                   !
!  5,6,7,8 = Small Square Blocks!                                             !
!  9       = Rectangular Blocks! (Horizontal)                                 !
!  R       = Move One Space to the "RIGHT"                                    !
!  L       = Move One Space to the "LEFT"                                              !
!  U       = Move One Space                                                 !
!  D       = move one space down                                              !
===============================================================================
```

You've started off the puzzle...you haven't made a move...this is how the puzzle looks when you begin....!

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:3:9:9:4:!
       !:3:5:6:4:!
       !:7:::::8:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 01 <> Directions: 7R - 8L - 3D - 4D - 9R After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:::::9:9:!
       !:3:5:6:4:!
       !:3:7:8:4:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 02 <> Directions: 5UL - 7UU -3R -5DD - 7LD - 9LL After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:9:9:::::!
       !:7:3:6:4:!
       !:5:3:8:4:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 03 <> Directions: 6UR - 8UU - 3R - 7RD - 9D After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:::::8:6:!
       !:9:9:3:4:!
       !:5:7:3:4:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 04 <> Directions: 8LL - 6LL - 3U - 4U - 7RR - 5RR - 9D After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:8:6:3:4:!
       !:::::3:4:!
       !:9:9:5:7:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 05 <> Directions: 6DL - 3L - 4L -7UU - 5R After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:8:3:4:7:!
       !:6:3:6:::!
       !:9:9:::5:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 06 <> Directions: 4D - 7L - 2DD - 0R - 1R - 8UU - 6UU After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:8:1:0:0:!
       !:6:1:0:0:!
       !:::3:7:2:!
       !:::3:4:2:!
       !:9:9:4:5:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 07 <> Directions: 3L - 1DD - 0L - 2UU - 7R - 5U - 4U - 9RR After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:8:0:0:2:!
       !:6:0:0:2:!
       !:8:6:4:::!
       !:3:1:4:::!
       !:::::9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 08 <> Directions: 3D - 1D - 6DR - 8DD - 0L - 2L - 7UU - 5UU After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:0:0:2:7:!
       !:0:0:2:5:!
       !:8:6:4:::!
       !:3:1:4:::!
       !:3:1:9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 09 <> Directions: 4R - 2DD - 7L - 5L - 4UU - 2R After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:0:0:7:4:!
       !:0:0:5:4:!
       !:8:6:::2:!
       !:3:1:::2:!
       !:3:1:9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 10 <> Directions: 6RD - 8RR - 0D - 7LL - 5UL - 8UU After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:7:5:8:4:!
       !:0:0:::4:!
       !:0:0:::2:!
       !:3:1:6:2:!
       !:3:1:9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 11 <> Directions: 0R - 3UU - 1L - 6LD After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:7:5:8:4:!
       !:3:0:0:4:!
       !:3 0:0:2:!
       !:1:::::2:!
       !:1:6:9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 12 <> Directions: 0D - 8DL - 4L - 2UU After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:7:5:4:2:!
       !:3:8:4:2:!
       !:3:0:0:::!
       !:1:0:0:::!
       !:1:6:9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 13 <> Directions: 0R - 8DD - 5D - 7R - 3U - 1U After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:3:7:4:2:!
       !:3:5:4:2:!
       !:1:::0:0:!
       !:1:8:0:0:!
       !:::6:9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 14 <> Directions: 6L - 8D - 0L - 2DD - 4R After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:3:7:::4:!
       !:3:5:::4:!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:1:0:0:2:!
       !:6:8:9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 15 <> Directions: 7R - 5R - 3R - 1UU - 0L After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:3:7:4:!
       !:1:3:5:4:!
       !:0:0:::2:!
       !:0:0:::2:!
       !:6:8:9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 16 <> Directions: 5DD - 7DD - 4L - 2UU - 5RU After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:3:4:2:!
       !:1:3:4:2:!
       !:0:0:7:5:!
       !:0:0:::::!
       !:6:8:9:9:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 17 <> Directions: 9U - 8RR - 6RR - 0D - 7LL - 5LL After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:3:4:2:!
       !:1:3:4:2:!
       !:7:5:::::!
       !:0:0:9:9:!
       !:0:0:6:8:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

Step 18 <> Directions: 9U - 6UR - 0R After following those Directions, the Puzzle should be in this state:-

```
===========
       !:::::::::!
       !:1:3:4:2:!
       !:1:3:4:2:!
       !:7:5:9:9:!
       !:::0:0:6:!
       !:::0:0:8:!
       !:::::::::!
       ===========
```

The Final Step is now complete, so you will be rewarded with four useful and valuable treasures, these are as follows....'_'

The "Lizard Blow" (This Weapon is effective vs Dragons) The "Mega Shield" (Strong Protective Shield for GUY...) The "Holy Robe::" (Great Ikari Tech; used by Selan and Artea) The "Legend Helm! (Strong Protective Head Gear for Guy and Maxim)

Well! You happy now....that's four useful items to add to your collection; all of these treasures will be suited for the final battle with the Sinistrals, so please keep them all!

After solving the Puzzle, you are obliged to continue, so head downstairs and

walk forwards...and DO NOT! Cross the Bridge, instead! Move along the simple

path and grab three treasures, a S.Myst Ring; a S.Power Ring and a Miracle

Potion...now would be a good time to cast the Escape spell...you must enter

the place once again however, you need to be in the same room as the reviving

wall, you remember now? Let's get back in the room; and we can even take the

staircase this time...and yes! I'm sorry about the long walk, but you're here

**now, so there's no Problem...**

There's a Save Tile downstairs, so save the game and go down even more stairs to proceed, erm..we have two staircases here, if you need to grab three more treasures...take the western staircase; down the stairs you will have lots of monsters to kill...defeat them all and grab an Angry Ring, a Kraken Rock and a fabulous "Super Mind Ring" which would be quite a bonus; when your done in this small chamber, go back upstairs and take the "Eastern" staircase this time, so you wind up in a room with an over-sized Lava Pool and some ladders to climb...this would make life easier I guess...Before we bother with the Ice Blocks; let's begin with some reachable treasures...you can see a ladder; down the ladder you will find two pillars, so lunge across the drop and evade the monster...walk across the bridge and grab two treasures..a S.Witch Ring and a Hi.Power Ring...the new Witch Ring should be equipped by Selan...the "Magical Wife"....^_^....Now! Back to the Ice Blocks....the platform would be back across the bridge and over the drop!

Harder than Ruby Cave...IMHO! Grab a chunk of Ice and place the cube in the Lava Pool; near the Bottom-Left corner of the first platform...do the same for the second Ice block; and throw two more Ice Blocks into your Lava Pool but stand in the Upper-Left Corner of the Platform...you'll have more Cold Water to play with, so place the last two Ice Chunks into the Lava, so the Ice forms a small bridge to another platform; you will have a fight with 2 monsters here, with them being so hard to evade!

Let's get the Bombs out, the monsters should be gone now! There's a crumbling wall if you look in the Northern Direction, so Blow the wall and grab another treasure, a Gorgon Rock....while journeying to this badly damaged wall, you should have passed a bridge, you should backtrack a little and walk across the bridge, while walking across this bridge will collapse; leaving you on a remote platform....now would be a good time to wield your Hook...just make your way to the elder and the Dragon will arrive! Make sure you have some Fire-Protection Gear equipped, you should also Fill Artea and Selan's MP's as you will be casting spells within this battle!

**Boss:** Fire Dragon

**HP:** 7,500 · **Weakness:** Ice

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Artea has the Ice.Valk Spell, and I hope Selan has the spell too...you will have Valor and Champion to use as well, so Magic should not be a Problem; I would keep Selan and Artea alive, these two are essential in this battle; you don't want to rely on Maxim for his magic spells....if he even has Ice.Valk that would be a miracle! Weapons are another problem in this battle, you need to have "Guy" equipped with the Lizard Blow; if he's stronger than Maxim..I would equip Maxim with an Ice-Elemental weapon as well, the Freeze Sword is a good choice...I have the Sky Sword equipped!

I assume Guy is in the front position, so allow him to smash out a Dragon Rush attack to do well over a thousand damage...that's the Ikari Technique of his Lizard Blow Weapon....Allow Maxim to perform a Normal attack and use both Selan and Artea...so you can blast the Dragon with Ice.Valk, twice! He should be down 3000HP as of now...even on Low-Levels...the Dragon has some dangerous attacks, the "Bite" Technique caused around 300 damage to even Guy on levels 35-40...which is bad....he can also use "Incendiary" this would be a horrible Flame attack causing 120-150 damage to the whole team....he can even use the Level three Magic spell....Firebird...which will do 100 or more damage to all party members, and finally...the Dragon has "Drowsy" his version of the spell causes damage as well as the sleep status, so you can see how dangerous this Dragon really is, after executing you first line of attack, have Artea use "Valor" to heal the whole team...if any of you character went down to a Bite attack; use either "Rally" or "Valor" on them alone! Remember...he is very weak against Ice...stick to Ice Magic and Dragon weapons....he should die in an instance, and he will leave 30,000 Exp. and 40,000 Gold in his will!

After slowing down the breathing process of a hideous Dragon, the old man will notice your energy waves, he speaks of a place called Preamarl, and he soon shuts up when it comes to the subject of Human's entering that place; If you wish to hear more about this village, cast the escape spell, and head for Chead, when you arrive, speak to the elder and allow him to hand over the Jade of Mermaids, and on top of this, he will give you some guidance on the whereabouts of Dual Blade; this means you have to visit a Crescent shaped Island...so head North-East of Chead until you reach your destination, sink your ship, and head inside the Whirlpool; now follow the simple path while sailing in the submarine, and enter the village of Preamarl...!
