<a id="s4-68"></a>

## 4.68. Preamarl

**MAIN GOALS** Zircon Gear! You want the sword and flail! *Trust Me!* Meet Queen Marla and all those mermaid/merman people! Ar' me hearties, sink me' ship! (GHOST SHIP!)

Underwater villages always look beautiful, and this place is no exception; if you want a gorgeous place to visit, then this is the area to be, you can even get some of that Lovely Zircon Gear in this town, there's a sword and flail; so make sure Maxim gets the sword, and Guy receives a Flail; there's some new armours too, the Royal Dress will make Selan a Queen, and the Full Mail comes in handy for Guy, as he is the strong one in your team...make sure you have all this gear, unless some how you've managed to grab loads of cool treasures from the ancient cave, all the way, this armour is pretty good, and all those prices aren't too bad; because you should be loaded round about now.

Apart from those lovely armours, there's a queen called Marla, she is waiting for you in the palace, this means you have to go there. Marla wonders how you got into this town, Maxim explains that he used the Jade from the elder of Chead...how's he doin' asks the Queen, now we should already know that the Elder is safe thanks to Maxim and co..so lets continue with the conversation; Marla has a Daughter called Piara, she seems to be trapped within some high currents, and the Queen wants to go alone to save her; the problem here is the fact that this would be a Suicide mission; just go exactly where Marla has nicked off to; let's go to the Tri-force islands, which are located a few paces North of Preamarl; if you go underwater, you will find a hole in the seabed; go inside this hole, sail into the proceeding whirlpool and head up the middle waterfall, so you reach the two mermaid chicks. Both Marla and Piara seem to be trapped within those strong currents; and to make things more interesting, there's a ship approaching, and it wants to cause chaos; in an instance, you are drawn into battle with a spooky lump o' wood! It's the Ghost Ship of Captain what's his face....'.'

**Boss:** Ghost Ship

**HP:** 10,000 · **Weakness:** Ice

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Tis' a fine vessel don't agree, this boss is weak against Holy Magic and not to mention, vulnerable to Healing spells. Lets call him weak, he can do very

little damage with his lame attacks, and he can summon Dark Skulls, which can use some instant Death techniques; like the Vengeance Ghost, you can use some cool Ikari techniques such as Sacred Song to cause over two thousand damage, it goes to show how weak he is, and even your Valor spells will be doing over 900 damage, and if Selan, Artea and Maxim all cast Valor, and Guy uses Sacred Song, this boss will be in a Sorry state after two rounds. All healing spells work well here, but Strong and Stronger are somewhat weak; if you want, you can use the Zap Spell, but I would say Valor is slightly more effective, when he's exiled to the cleft of dimension, you can claim 30,000 experience points, and 50,000 Gold coins, easy battle, big reward, Tis' a fine example.

The Current Halts as soon as the Big Bad Ghost has finally gone to Hell, and all looks well, until the Girl's are sucked into some whirlpools..along with several Guards; let us follow them, perhaps Dual Blade lies ahead, jump in your ship and sail into a whirlpool. This takes us into the Submarine Shrine so let's explore, Marla and Piara are here, as well as some soldiers, soon a strange force will cause those soldiers to die within a few seconds...it's a Sinistral, but which one, there's four, so could this be the Third, you'll find out soon so don't worry; just head into the entrance of the submarine shrine, and prepare for an unwanted meeting with another Sinistral; with even more power than Amon and Gades put together, he is the one and only....Read on if you want to know!!!
