<a id="s4-69"></a>

## 4.69. Submarine Shrine

**MAIN GOALS** Who is this SUPER Being, find out more information! Chead??? what the Hell, it's done for! (Watch the Performance!)

Okay! This is the Submarine Shrine, if you are a ZSNES user, in terms of the emulated version of this game...then i'm sorry but the Guy/Girl who made the emulator hasn't managed to fix the Submarine Shrine in Lufia 2. The Graphics are somewhat screwed up, and you cannot see where you are going, in fact you cannot even see the sprites; but there's a way round this, if you want to see Maxim and your enemy, press the number "2" on your keyboard to remove one of the Graphics layers. When you come to the Dual Blade, it will ring for a few seconds, hell knows why? Then Daos will show up; he is displeased with the way Dual Blade starts to ring, therefore he will um, warp you back to Chead; strange??? but we see why, he wants you to see this town suffer so he begins to cause his signature form of punishment, TERROR!

Daos, the Sinistral of Terror, hates the fact that a Human could be stronger than most Sinistrals, so just to spite Maxim, Selan, Guy and Artea; he wants to destroy the town of Chead; and that's what he does...then G*Paladin gets kind of depressed and starts to weep at the dead people; nah but you will be kind of depressed at these kind of scenes, Maxim wants to cause some pain on Daos, so he is going to kill this fiend in cold blood; but hey! how can we reach him, he's on a "Floating" Island. Let's see if Lexis can help us in this situation, you can find him in Portravia, and when you look around the town, you will find that he hasn't delivered his promise to Milka yet!
