<a id="s4-7"></a>

## 4.7. Story Events

**MAIN GOALS** Find out the whereabouts of Tia! Rescue Tia from Lake Cave! Buy new equipment for Tia!

Back in the village of Sundletan; you can now rest at the inn, and save your game at the church if you wish. After preparations have been made; speak to the blue haired dude, near the village entrance; so you can find out that a pretty young girl went looking for you at Lake cave, and you should know by now, that Lake Cave is home to a hoard of Monsters.

First of all, you need to find this young girl; she can be found in the Lake Cave, in the room where you solved the archery puzzle; when you had to fire arrows at some monsters behind spikes. When you arrive in that room; you can see some monsters attacking a girl; who just happens to be Tia, and Maxim's would be "Girlfriend". Still you must perform your heroic duty, and kill the monsters, which in this case are a Goblin and a Skeleton. After you demolish the monsters; Tia will explain why she came looking for you.

It seems that Tia thought you were going away from her; and by the looks of it, Tia is really upset about this. Maxim explains about the Red Light, and how he's known swordsman ship ever since he was born. Tia at the end decides to come with you, but this reckless wench runs straight into another battle. When Tia joins your party, she will be at Level 7; which should be about two levels below Maxim. She can use the "Spark" spell, and she also comes with the "Drowsy" and "Strong" spells too.

After Tia has joined, head back to Sundletan and purchase the "Droplet" and "Poison" spells for Tia. If needed you can buy the "Drowsy" spell for Maxim; but at the moment 1000G is a large chunk of your money. Why you've got the chance, you should buy Tia a new weapon; the Whip is the best choice, as its got the "Flame Blast" Ikari technique, and Tia will take a lot of damage in battle, because of her weak defense.

The next part of your quest, requires a journey to the Alunze Kingdom; still you might as well gain a few levels, before making tracks. When you do gain a few levels; head in the North-west direction, and you will come to a small shrine; which will lead you over the mountains. To reach Alunze, head across the patches of desert area; till you finally come to a small bridge, you can then head east a little, which will take you to the Alunze Kingdom.
