<a id="s4-70"></a>

## 4.70. Story Events

**MAIN GOALS** Visit Lexis at Kirmo's Lab in Portravia! Locate the 3y Kingdom/Gratze!

We have to speak to Lexis, he's inside Kirmo's Lab, so speak to him and he will start rambling on about Doom Island, he also mention something about his needs to remodel Excerion, the wonderful ship you are sailing in. A strong super powered engine will be required, but it is too hard to create....thanks to the limited time those annoying Sinistrals have provided; we need this new engine real bad, so let's head for Gratze, a Kingdom with no allies, and a messed up ruler; yes, this is the "3y Kingdom" known as Gratze. Stealing is one option for obtaining such a powerful engine; or you could try the other option, a Five-Fingered Discount! Either way, Guy is determined to get the engine, so lets be on our way to Gratze, the 3y Kingdom...

Gratze is a hard place to find, so I am going to give you directions; first of all, you need to sail to Dankirk; then you should head underwater, so you can see a hole in the Sea Bed...this hole appears to be unaccessible, so use the submarine to maneuver in a clock-wise direction around the Northern Land Mass, soon you will see some miniature rocks, these mark out a cut between 2 islands, so head south when you approach the rocks, and as if by Magic, you will reach a hole in the sea bed, the same hole you looked at before; which was unaccessible; so go inside and sail into the whirlpool which follows on from this path...you should now be in Dankirk's Northern Cave, so maneuver your submarine so you can get out of the water, head through the door, and head up four staircases, you will end up in the 3y Kingdom. Now head outside the room and get caught by some lame guards, these are a little cooler than the average guards, as they can use the Drowsy spell to make you go to your most loved place in the whole world...The Nick!
