<a id="s4-71"></a>

## 4.71. The Nick!

**MAIN GOALS** Escape from Prison! Avoid Loss of HP and MP During Battles!

Items -> Basement Key, Miracle

Prison it is! Thieves are getting popular among the population of this lame castle, with lousy soldiers. You are stuck in a cell with those two thieves you came across during the Crown stealing uprise at the castle of Alunze; in this place these fools are here to help you, one of them opens the locked door, so you can get out of the cell, and from here on theirs various new monsters for you to face and lots of Guards!!

From the Cell which you were imprisoned inside, head in the western direction so you can find a door and some healing tiles inside the western cell, there is also a save tile, so don't hesitate to save the game if you need to. Now! Enter the door which follows and you will have to fight some soldiers, with a boss battle tune...and no! I will not give you a strategy for such a simple battle, these Guys are the same as before, Feeble like Kittens! no disrespect to cats in intended, so do not send me e-mails on how insulting I was. After an easy battle, Berty and Bart will make themselves scarce once again, so go up the stairs and try to keep away from the Gold Gorem, if he gets hold of you, he will perform a horrible attack, which will leave you team in a rather sorry state, but whatever happens, you need to be in the next room with some weird Jelly Fish and a Sphinx. Now, let's cut down some vines on the wall and place a bomb near the messed up area, this reveals a simple path, go up the stairs which follow and you will arrive in a room with some monsters, these should all be killed if you want to reach the statue which follows...give the statue a push to reveal a secret staircase. Go downstairs and fire an arrow at the switch...this will make the platform complete and you can take the Basement Key from the treasure box!

Head back to the room with this Sphinx and some vines on the wall; you should notice a door, go inside and avoid the White Dragons; these can be a pain to defeat because of their High Agility, and my lack of patience with healing & casting strong magic spells. Let's just ignore them, and head for the vase on the other side of the room...try to avoid a horrible battle against a Gold Gorem too, these Guy can really wreck havoc with their Golden Mist technique; this does around 150+ damage to the whole team...Ouch! Let's grab the Vase; I would stand on the switch while your lifting this vase, you do want to invoke the opening of the next door, when the Northern door opens, go inside and shove the vase onto the switch; and take out the cool Hook Skill you like using so much, get across that pit, and make sure you pull the lever switch. You should go back into the previous room, and leave the vase on the switch; inside the next chamber you will be confronted by a Sphinx..take him out and fire an arrow in the eye on the wall, just so you can enter the next room. Go through the door and avoid all the monsters once again, make your way across the bridge, through the door and up some stairs to find another monster, this time it's a Moray Vine, and these Guys are kind of weak, so do not worry too much. Now, you will have a few battles in the next room, as it seems to be over saturated with monsters, but to get more on topic...this place has three doors. Let's defeat all these monsters, and begin by exploring the door in the Lower-Right corner of the room!

The path is fairly simple, just enter the door, kill of the Basilisk and head through the door which follows, now pull the lever and use the hook to reach the eastern pillar, and finally lunge across the Northern Pit, so you can get your mitts on a "Miracle" Potion. When the potion has been acquired, use the hook to reach the Southern Platform, go through the door, and exterminate all the monsters, and you will soon come back to the room with three doors, and you have eliminated two of them so far, the only on left is the Upper-Right door. Let's go inside! There's some more monsters to fight in this place; so don't let your Guard down; all the monsters her can be killed with ease...so don't worry about healing, just kill them, then head through the door, there is a simple one way path leading to a puzzle room, so go up whatever stairs and through any doors you see, make sure you end up in a room with a hardish puzzle involving tiles!

Not the Ideal Puzzle to solve; you have to reach the southern platform here; so move onto the tile below you, then move in these directions, so you end up on the Southern Platform....Down - Right - Right - Up - Right - Down and Left so you can get off the last tile, the southern platform has a door, so enter and follow the path out onto the main grounds of the 3y Kingdom, so you can meet up with Prince Klaus and his minions!
