<a id="s4-72"></a>

## 4.72. Gratze

**MAIN GOALS** Demolish the Tank and Chore the Engine! Laugh at Prince Klaus as he loses his mind!

In the Battle Grounds, Prince Klaus and his lame soldiers have the two mad thieves captive; and it's now time to cause an uprise in this place, so lets watch Maxim and co. have a laugh with the soldiers, these Guys are like so dumb! They are asking the question "Who do you think you are?" while you could be smashing up their defenses and taking the life of their Prince! The Prince is not too amused, he seems to recognize the "Magical Lady" known as "Magical Selan" kinda cute name for her I guess; she does not like this of course, and he still gets on her nerves...so you have to fight his super powered war tank, let's begin! Erm..I forgot to mention a scrap with some more soldiers too and once again....boss music plays!

**Boss:** Tank · **HP:** 10,000

¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤

¥ Pretty Tough I would say, but only when your on a lower level, this tank is strong against magical attacks, so make sure all magic spells used here are for healing the whole team and for raising stats such as attack power; and Defense I suppose. Make sure everyone apart from Selan attacks the Tank; it can be a pain without someone to do the healing, follow the simple strategy of Normal attacks with Maxim, Artea and Guy, and make sure Selan is the one casting "Valor" or "Champion" on the whole team; keep on following such a simple strategy, and he will be in pieces pretty soon, and this tank will drop 40,000 experience points and because Klaus really is Lame, this tank will only hand over 1 Gold Coin....Not too good for a tough battle!

Taking the engine was kind of tough...but how far will Klaus go, he is in such a home-wrecking mood, that he wants to destroy the castle and himself in the process, kinda like a Kamikaze Bomber. Magical Selan warps the whole team to Portravia to avoid the explosion; however, Berty and Bart were in this explosion too, but we can stop worrying about them thanks to the scene which soon follows...They've finally done it; they've nicked the Crown! Well, thats one thing out of the way, now let's take care of a few story events...'.'
