<a id="s4-75"></a>

## 4.75. Shuman

**MAIN GOALS** Obtain the Pearl Armour! Defeat the Sinistral of Destruction! Escort Lisa to the peak of the tower!

Items -> S.Ice Ring, S.Water Ring. S.Thun Ring, Pearl Armour

You task here is to drop Lisa on the top of the tower, and claim the Divine Armour....but this isn't an easy task if your levels are low. I will now give you some directions on how to complete all three towers, please pay attention here...you may find these towers complicated. Now, walk forwards and head up some wide steps, head right and up even more steps, and follow this simple path until you reach a door; go inside this door and kill off the Sphinx; you should have access to some stairs, so head upstairs and along another path leading to another door, go inside and take the S.Ice Ring from the treasure box...now backtrack to the outside area before you killed a Sphinx, and keep going left until you have a choice two doors. If it's a fight with some Blue Dragons you need, go inside the door to your right, but if you are not in the mood for a worthless fight, you can enter the Left door so you can continue.

When your inside a small room...it would be in your best interests to stun the Mega Cyclops or avoid him; make sure you go up those stairs and have a look inside the Left door, you can get your mitts on a S.Water Ring after you kill the Leech to be on the safe side. When you've acquired this ring you are obliged to continue, so head outside once again and enter the door to your Right, and avoid the Black Dragon..if he manages to catch you..use Holy magic spells such as Fry and Zap to kill him with ease, otherwise you should enter the door which follows on after the staircase. Another Sphinx lurks in the next room, but you can just ignore him and head up the stairs and through the door which follows, there's a leech and a dead end, the fight against this Leech is compulsory, so get rid of this fiend and go up the stairs which appear after the battle.

Upon entering the stairs, you will find a door; go inside, and head up the stairs, it looks like two different paths here, but both paths lead to the same door; inside the door is a Blue Dragon..if needed, kill this fiend; I would make sure he dies quickly because he can unleash some dangerous spells and attacks. If your main desire is proceeding further through this game, go down the stairs, stun the Mega cyclops and head outside again, head up those steps and follow the path until you reach a door, if you want a S.Thun Ring! head for the stairs far right of the door and keep following along a one-way path until you find the treasure box...if you are still at this door, then by all means go inside; now kill off the Black Dragon, go up some stairs and head up some really wide steps; go inside the door and save your game, go up some more stairs and walk near the strange tombstone....you will have to rid yourself of a past enemy, who has somehow being revived by the Sinistral of Death...Erim; and the Sinistral is...GADES! The Sinistral of Destruction!!!

```
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  # Sinistral Boss: GADES #  HP: 7,500        Weakness: Holy
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
```

¥ Gades is back thanks to Erim...but he is a pushover at such a late stage in the game..he is weak against Holy magic spells and weapons, so give him a few blasts of Zap..and he will die soon! He does still cast "Destructo Wave" this is his weak spell, and I doubt he will ever use "Devastation" so he is the easiest boss of the games ending! If he gets murdered by your Zircon weapons; which is pretty normal, the he will drop 50,000 experience and 50,000 Gold Coins...not a bad little bonus for such an easy battle, and you will even be able to grab your Pearl Armour from the tombstone..Sweeeeeet!

Life is so simple...you will get the Divine armour, which is worth equipping because of the cool IP technique; called Phoenix...It can restore everyones lives, HP and MP..what a BONUS! When you have the armour, Lisa will stay at the tower, if you want you can cast the escape spell to reach Narvick quicker and you can even stock up on some more potions and visit the elder of course!

Time to get the second girl; she is waiting at the elders house, her name is Marie and she needs to be taken to the North-Eastern island..and to the tower of Strahda...this will be another place where you can find another piece of the Divine Gear, for Maxim, the Hero!
