<a id="s4-76"></a>

## 4.76. Strahda

**MAIN GOALS** Obtain the Pearl Helmet! Defeat the Sinistral of Chaos! Escort Marie to the peak of this tower!

Items -> Pearl Helmet

This tower is similar to Shuman; you have the same type of mission too, you have to drop off the girl, kill a sinistral and obtain a piece of the Divine Gear. This tower is a nice challenge...first of all, head left and ignore the door, go up the steps and head forwards, then right and run up even more steps...you should be on a one way path leading to a door, with a Blue Dragon inside; now kill him, go up the stairs and follow on through the next door; you should be in a small room with an unavoidable Mega Cyclops, try using an instant death spell like Destroy or Dark Force on these monsters, most of the time those spells can be rather successful when you fight any type of Cyclops monster, when he bites the dust...by all means go upstairs, so your back on the road...ready to find another door!

These doors are too easy to find, head along this path, enter the door and head up some more stairs while avoiding the Leech...and another leech will be lurking around in the next chamber, he needs to be killed so you can take the stairs into the next room, so this battle has some importance, do away with this fiend, go upstairs and up the staircase which follows. There's another door nearby...ignore the door, and head up the steps, keep going along this path, go left, down, left and up Three lots of steps, and finally enter the door; go upstairs...kill the Black Dragons, go upstairs again and you will be on the road once again!

Very straight Forward from here, just head upwards and enter the door..save the game if needed and head up the stairs which follow and head for the next tombstone...a sinistral will appear. This is Amon, the sinistral of chaos, he is pretty straight forward with you too, hes annoyed by the likes of you, so he's going to kill you all; he even looks cool when you fight him, just check out his Lance and his Golden Armour, and the "Grey Hair"..!

```
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  # Sinistral Boss: AMON #   HP: 10,000        Weakness: Holy
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
```

¥ Amon is much stronger than Gades, although his HP isn't too high, he sure can kick some ass! He uses some level three magic spells such as Ice.Valk and Thunder, Amon can even use an attack known as Galactic lancer, which will cause over a Hundred damage to the whole team...and he may even throw in the odd Chaos wave to cause minimum amounts of damage to the whole team; if your party has low levels, make sure you think before you chuck your turns away on normal attacks, follow this simple pattern to succeed; Maxim should attack as normal, Guy should use the Beserker IP technique from his Zirco Shield to enhance everyones attack power, and he should keep on attacking after he's done this twice, Artea should use either Zap or Fry to cause some nice Holy damage, and Selan should be casting Valor and Champion when needed, and the odd Thunder/Firebird/Ice.Valk spell when shes got a free turn...Amon can be quite hard for a low-leveled team..if you are having a low-leveled game for fun! Still, when he's gone...you get 50,000 experience, and 50,000 Gold coins and the wonderful "Pearl Helmet" for Maxim...get you new headgear equipped and head back to Narvick!

It's almost time for the final tower, so make sure all the Divine Gear is equipped on Maxim...then head for the elders house once again. This time you have one more girl left, she is Clare and she needs to reach the final tower located on the North-Western Island, this is the tower of Kamirno...and this needs to be activated fast, thanks to the movement of Doom island...let's go!
