<a id="s4-77"></a>

## 4.77. Kamirno

**MAIN GOALS** Obtain the Pearl Shield! Escort Clare to the peak of this tower! Dual Blade...you will get it here!

Items -> S.Fire Ring, Pearl Shield, Dual Blade

This is the last of the three towers, and you do NOT have to fight one of the four Sinistrals here...it is strictly a challenging tower without a Boss. To begin, head forwards and through the only door in site, kill off the Black Dragons and head upstairs, head right and up some steps..you will find a door with a treasure box inside..you might as well get this treasure, for those of you who care...the treasure is a S.Fire Ring! Head outside, and follow the path while walking in a western direction...make sure you find a door, and go inside, avoid all the enemies here and go up the stairs. Head in the eastern direction and head North at the first turn, and up some steps, keep on going and enter the door...fight both monsters if you want, and continue up some more stairs...your back on the road once again!

Okay, if you want to respect scenery, you will see a small statue of Cupid to your right...but you need to go in the Left direction and down some steps, go left again and enter the next chamber. Inside, avoid the monsters and head upstairs...walk forwards, then east and enter another door, go up the stairs and exterminate the Gorgon to reveal some hidden stairs...head up those new stairs, and go outside...walk in the eastern direction and then North because of the long steps...when you reach the top of these steps, go down the stairs and head outside of the small room...both paths lead to the same place, that place is a room with a Leech; for an easy escape, you should take the lower path...and I will give you directions so read carefully!

I assume you took the lower door, well here goes...! Your inside a small room with a Mega Cyclops, I think you had better kill him...when he rots, head up the stairs, and through the door which follows..dispose of the Gorgon and go upstairs once again, you should take the upper door to avoid fighting, but if you need experience the door to your right is there...you'll end up in a room with a Leech, he must be killed, so do away with him and enter the staircase which appears. Head up three staircases and through a door to reach a save tile, now would be a great time for saving the game, so by all means do so!

Up the stairs, you'll find a Tombstone..(Whats New?) and NO boss...instead of a boss coming, you will get an item for free, the item is part of the Divine Gear, and it's known as the "Pearl Shield" what a bonus...! Whats This? not him again, another Sinistral is standing right in front of you...it's Daos; he doesn't look too happy, whats he gonna do? what will happen to Maxim when Daos shows him true terror....find out when the Dual Blade appears! Daos will be provoked here so he begins with a nice little blasting attack...Maxim will get up like a true warrior and it will be Red energy vs Blue...It looks like a draw and Dual Blade chooses Maxim over Daos...now the real adventure begins with a True Hero and his loyal companions, his lovely wife, his new best mate and some Blue Haired Elven swordsman who highly respects him! Now...the final key to this puzzle sets herself in place and Doom island is halted, the scene swaps to Daos and Amon; it seems they've messed up the ship and you are going to have problems reaching them...won't Maxim and co. get the ship repaired! Amon says he took care of that problem too; what does he mean? Whatever you are thinking, Selan will warp the party back to Portravia...Lexis will give the ship repairs....and it's time for some story events!

```
¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤¤
± Final Preparation ± (Story Events!)
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
**MAIN GOALS**
Witness a scene of romance, and the Return of Dekar!
Finalize the gear equipped on your Doom Island Team!
Take your new Air Balloon to Doom Island!
```

Well, you will see some interesting things happen here...Lexis is going to repair the Excerion and Maxim wants to spend some time with his wife. Maxim asks Selan to stay in Portravia, she is rather offended and she tells him to shut his face...Selan really does love Maxim..so she will be with him until the very end, she wants to defeat Daos and return to their Jeros! Guy seems to be listening in..Artea starts to listen too, and they have a little talk about what will happen after Daos gets stuffed; Guy is going to invite all his friends over to party; soon after the talk finishes and Lexis has done the repairs on the Excerion...so go inside the lab and speak to him! He is going to move your vessel out ready for an attack on Doom Island...however the Sinistrals have sent some monsters to keep you busy, and the pressure on Doom island is weakening, so Maxim his wife and his two mates walk outside and check out the monsters...Look at them! there's a good few here, and this is going to take a while, so here goes..someone whom you know comes to help you in such a problem...he's as dumb as rock...it's the Magnificent "Dekar" and he was suppose to be six-foot under! He's alive and he will take care of the monsters, so you can now jump into the Hot-Air balloon and go to Doom Island, where the Sinistrals are! Amon tries to knock you out of the sky; and just to your surprise, he fails miserably, leaving all of you stranded on Doom Island, along with four Sinistrals!
