<a id="s4-78"></a>

## 4.78. Doom Island

**MAIN GOALS** Gades, The sinistral of Destruction must die! Amon...the sinistral of chaos must be killed! Erim...the sinistral of death should see the reaper! Daos is last...when he falls you beaten this game! Destruction of the mystic stones must take Place!

Items -> Miracle × 9

Magical Selan...you should cast the "Light" spell; so she does, cool music from here, so keep walking forwards...as soon as you come to a Blue carpet; here comes a Sinistral, this is simply "Gades" the wimp of destruction; the only one who could have destroyed your ship better than Amon did...his main ambition is destruction after all...Okay, now we fight; make sure Dual Blade and the Pearl Gear is equipped, and begin the Assault!!!

```
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  # Sinistral Boss: GADES #  HP: 7,500        Weakness: Holy
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
```

¥ Armed with Destructo wave and normal attacks, Gades is lame when it comes to destroying strong humans; his attacks will do little damage and you will kill him with ease. Stick to Zap and Fry from Artea's bag of tricks; and make sure Maxim uses the IP technique from Dual Blade...known as Wave Motion; before a Sinistral Boss...everyones IP will be filled to Maximum, and for those of you who care, that is 255 points...Gades can be killed easily by a few rounds of Zap as well as a couple o' blows from the Dual Blade when it's charged with a Wave Motion technique. Stick to Zap and normal attacks, and make sure Selan heals your team when HP's go down rapidly; if Gades dies...which will happen; he drops 50,000 exp and 50,000 Gold!

The Next one on your Hit List is Amon...so enter the Northern staircase and head upwards until you hit the Northern wall, go inside the door and follow the path in the eastern direction, enter the door and walk downwards inside the next room, go up the stairs and walk onto the stage...you will meet Amon once again....this time he's here to defend Daos, his master! So let's Dance!

```
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  # Sinistral Boss: AMON #  HP: 10,000        Weakness: Holy
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
```

Amon should now be dead...so go upstairs and walk forwards; you hear a voice from far above, it seems to be Daos...Cross the bridge he says, Selan thinks this is a trap and you can understand why, Meanwhile Artea and Guy have both crossed the bridge...soon after, Maxim and Selan join them, as you approach the stairs, the Female Sinistral appears, she gives her little intro and gets ready to attack, tis' Erim the Mistress of Death...perhaps the wife of the reaper, shes very strong compared to Gades and Amon too!

```
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  # Sinistral Boss: ERIM #   HP: 12,500        Weakness: Holy
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
```

¥ Check out her cool shield....it's living? Devastation Wave can cause instant death and Dark Fry can be really destructive...it can cause over 200+ Damage to the likes of Guy and Maxim! Okay, she's much harder than Amon...but you should begin with Wave Motion and follow on with Zap; Guy should attack as Normal, Selan should use Holy Energy and the Valor spell whenever HP's are reduced miserably...Maxim should stick with Normal attacks, these are very effective, they can do 2,400 damage on a Critical Blow...watch out for Erim's instant Death attacks, use Valor to revive the fallen allies, and keep using the Zap spell to inflict loads of damage per turn...she will die within five minutes or so...she drops 50,000 exp and 50,000 Gold once defeated!

Erim's almost dead, she asks Maxim a few questions on his relationship with Selan and she disappears. Perhaps she is jealous of Selan? or maybe she's a little upset because shes so damn ugly....she is kind enough to leave a warp portal unguarded...this will take you into the final chamber..where you will face Daos, the Sinistral of Terror...and he's the final boss of this game!

Sinistrals tend to get a little agitated when they are being beaten...Daos is no exception, he wants to get rid of you so he's going to do this himself; in this battle...there's not much of a strategy which is different to that of Erim...and this battle doesn't even have a different battle tune to the other sinistral bosses, and that is by far, the most disappointing thing in this game....he's not much of a challenge either...so now! Maxim will end his life with the Dual Blade, and he will restore peace to the world, so here we go! The Grand Finally begins here....!!!!

```
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  # Final Boss: DAOS #       HP: 20,000        Weakness: Holy
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
```

¥ Daos, is Terror itself, he uses some devastating attacks which can cause some Random Status effects! First of all, he's got an attack called Terror Wave; it causes a little damage and it can inflict Poison/Confuse status ailments which ain't too pretty. He also uses Dark Fry...this is better than Erim's version of the spell thanks to his higher intelligence status...Level three magic spells such as Firebird will be used here too, and he can do 150-200 damage with those too...This is the Final Battle so don't worry about your MP's, just give it all you've got...try to follow this strategy while your on with this battle...!!!!

º Maxim! The Hero should begin with "Wave Motion" to up his status, his Magical wife should use Holy Energy, Artea should use Zap; and Guy should give Daos a taste of Zircon weaponry....(Normal attacks!) When Daos finishes his attack; Magical Selan should cast Valor, Artea should repeat the Zap spell to the end of this battle, and Maxim should join Guy in Normal attacks, if Selan can use one of her Ikari techniques within a turn without the whole team getting annihilated, then use Holy Energy once again...otherwise keep up the Valor spells and allow Maxim and Guy do the main attacks...Daos should be killed within ten minutes on a low level game...he even drops some experience and cash for you to spend....perhaps it's time Selan got some new jewelry from her loving husband...Now, what has Daos got up his sleeve...watch and learn!!

» The end has finally come, what's gonna happen; looks as though Daos is going to have the last laugh after all, he is using the energy waves from his three deceased companions, Gades, Amon and Erim...Maxim tries to stop the waves alone, but he is not strong enough, he asks for Artea, Guy and Selan to help him, and once again it's red vs blue...success happens here...Maxim and his friends manage to destroy Daos with Maxim still standing..He checks on the two lads, and then walks over to his beloved wife, she looks as though shes still standing, but shes on her way out I believe; the Girl falls to the ground in severe pain...and if you've got a heart now is the time to feel sorry for her; or Cry! the choice is yours, soon after...Doom island starts to crumble, Artea and Guy make it across the bridge, however, Artea's Warp spell isn't strong enough to reach Selan and Maxim...she looks as though shes dead...and all could now be lost...but soon, Daos shows up, not only has he killed Maxim's wife, he wants to drop Doom Island onto Parcelyte, where Maxim's Child is living....How does Maxim stop this? Perhaps Iris will give some answers when she shows up! Its simple! Just destroy 3 mystical stones at the basement of Doom Island...so jump in the warp tile and start causing destruction....and NO! Gades is not here to help!

« It's almost the end, you need to destroy three mystical stone, these are in different rooms, for the first one, move upwards and take a right turn, keep going along the path and destroy....head in the eastern direction, then move upwards again, go through the door into the second chamber! Enter the door which follows, head right and upwards, destroy the second stone, move in the eastern direction and move upwards again, access the door into the third and final chamber...! Head upwards, follow this long path to wind up at the final stone, looks as though Maxim cannot break this, Dual Blade helps you, and it finally shatters...that's the game over with, now watch the cool ending without me spoiling it for you...this ends the main walkthrough...so be amazed and try to make sense of this ending!

« Well! Did you like this game....I was disappointed with the FINAL battle; no cool battle music and all! BUT you can go through the game once again...I've seen the game through once, so I decided to kill Daos and co. for a second time, although i've never completed this game "Twice" someone has given me some info on the games second completion...he is "Phoenix 1911" and I will now be obliged to explain two new modes after the game dies!

REPLAY Mode! ------------ You gain 4× the NORMAL amounts of experience and gold within a battle, making it much easier to reach level 99...this is one of the best times to kill the EGG Dragon and to dispatch the monsters within the ANCIENT CAVE!

GIFT Mode! ---------- You are inside the town of Gruberik, and you cannot leave, so you have one option; this is to reach the ancient cave, all you have to do is pick a team of four characters...certain combinations will help you break through this dungeon with ease! More enjoyable than the previous mode I suppose, and this is the ONLY time you can use TIA within this dungeon!
