<a id="s5-3"></a>

## 5.3. The Egg Dragon

**MAIN GOALS** Obtain Eight Dragon eggs! Claim one of your Prizes! Destroy the Egg Dragon! -> When you reach Level 99!

Items -> You get a choice of four different prizes!!!

Okay, so this is the place where you can fight the Egg Dragon, although you should only fight him when you've taken all his prizes; and when you reach Level 99. Did you hear me say "PRIZES", yes that is correct, you can get 4 different rewards for collecting eight dragon eggs, these rewards are good in most circumstances, but If I were you, I would forget about the fruits!

The rewards are as follows:-

<> Set of 60 stat boosting potions...10 of each kind, you know the stuff! <> Set of 160 Capsule monster fruits.Don't pick these! <> An "OLD" Shield...................Can be equipped on Guy! (Good DFP!) <> Set of "SUPER" Rings..............Not sure how many, but quite a few!

If you manage to stuff the egg Dragon...you are rewarded as follows:-

<> The "Delightful" Egg Ring.........Boost's all stats to Max (999!) <> An "EGG" Sword....................Fairly poor weapon, good Ikari Tech! <> 60,000 Exp and 60,000 GP..........Sweeeeeet!

After taking all those prizes, in other words after collecting 40 dragon eggs in total, the egg dragon will be rather unhappy, he isn't pleased because you are being greedy, he has given you all that stuff and still you ask for more. The egg dragon has decided it's time for a fight, so you can either fight him or not fight him, and make sure you select the top option if you don't wish to battle him; if you do want to fight this creature, you need to be level 95 or more, if you are level 60-70 you may have a chance with all the right gear equipped...The strategy will be pretty good hopefully..but is this Egg Dragon as hard as people say, you will indeed have a rough time here, but I won this battle when my party was at Levels 65-66, and that took me almost 20 minutes!

You will probably want to know what gear I used, and I will now tell you, so despite what most people say, it is possible to beat the Egg Dragon with your team at levels below 99; although I wouldn't go any lower than levels 60-65 due to the high damage from the Dragon's attacks...Okay! here is what I used!

```
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
 :MAXIM - Level 66::::::GUY - Level 65::::::::ARTEA - Level 65::::::
 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
 :Weapon: Zirco Sword:::Weapon: Zirco Flail:::Weapon: Arty's Bow::::
 :Armour: Bright Armor::Armour: Revive Armor::Armour: Magic Scale:::
 :Shield: Holy Shield:::Shield: Old Shield::::Shield: Rune Gloves:::
 :Helmet: Crysto Helm:::Helmet: Crysto Helm:::Helmet: Holy Cap::::::
 :::Ring: S-Myst Ring:::::Ring: S-Power Ring::::Ring: Hi-Power Ring:
 ::Jewel: Gorgon Rock::::Jewel: Evil Jewel:::::Jewel: Kraken Rock:::
 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
 :SELAN - Level 65::::::
 :::::::::::::::::::::::  Those Items are "NOT" what I would recommend, I have
 :Weapon: Super Sword:::  to say these must be the bare minimum gear to be used
 :Armour: Royal Dress:::  in such a complex battle; do not have your characters
 :Shield: Gauntlet::::::  equipped this badly unless you can't be bothered to
 :Helmet: Holy Cap::::::  raid the "Ancient Cave" so you can get hold of some
 :::Ring: S-Witch Ring::  cool items....!
 ::Jewel: Mysto Jewel:::
 :::::::::::::::::::::::
```

Don't bother going anywhere near the Dragon unless you have a Gorgon Rock and an Old sword to use in battle; those items both have IP techniques which can cause severe damage to the Egg Dragon, and one more thing...you should bring some fire protection gear to this battle; plus you should also make sure all party members, apart from GUY have the Valor/Courage/Shield/Trick spells; you will need these just to up your stats a little. Now! on with the strategy, so read carefully and enjoy fighting this Boss, despite it's difficulty!

```
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  # Elite Boss: EGG DRAGON #     HP: 65,500      Weakness: Nothing!!!
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
```

¥ Flames of doom, and the Phoenix Resurrection in one, this is one tough Dragon as he can use both Holy and Fire elemental attacks...he even has a fair share of devastating Physical attacks. Now let's begin by describing his attacks; first off, he has an attack called "Sunny-Side Up" and to be fair; and this attack can cause major damage to your whole party; in perspective, this has to be at least twice as powerful as the Zap spell! "Sunny-Side up" is a Flame attack...so if you have the Fire Gear I mentioned before, you will be able to absorb most of the damage from these attacks. The other attack that hit's all party members, is his "ZAP" spell, this is a Holy Spell as you know, and it is fairly effective against a unprepared team..in my case even this spell did over 200 damage to Guy...and to be honest most of my characters were knocked you quickly, apart from Maxim and Artea. After those attacks, the Egg Dragon could use a very strong physical attack called "Scrambled Egg" and this alone only hits one ally, but if their defense is somewhat poor, then you've got a problem! The last of his attacks just confuses people, and to be fair; I have to say this is the most annoying of all...as you may recall, Confusing can be a major problem, due to the fact that it makes your allies attack each other; and if someone like Guy hits Selan, she will be mortally wounded, or she may even fall...not a pretty site. Now! let's win this battle, make sure Maxim is the one who casts Valor; as he should have more HP than Artea and Selan...you should equip Artea with the Gorgon Rock as he will attack first, Guy should attack normally, and Selan should keep Maxim's MP's up and use spells like Trick, Courage and Shield! Follow that simple pattern, until the Egg Dragon is loosing below a thousand HP to your "Battle Cry" or "Ax Attack" IP techs and just allow Artea to attack normally, if needed, Guy could also chip in with the healing, by using some healing Ikari techniques. If the Battle Cry technique starts to do 1,000 or below, this will mean the Egg Dragon has less than 7,000 Hit points left, and if that's the case, then you have almost won this battle...and one last thing to end with! DO NOT! under any circumstances use Offensive Magic spells, these will do too little damage to the Egg Dragon and to be fair, offensive magic attacks are a load o' Trash in this battle!

When the Egg Dragon dies, you will receive 60,000 experience points & 60,000 Gold Coins...and just so this battle has not been a complete waste of time; the Dragon also gives you the Egg Ring and the Egg Sword. The sword isn't up to much, but the Egg Ring rocks...it will boost all your stats to Max, which is 999 points for anything apart from the GUT Stat...which caps at 199; and this means you can equip the Egg Sword, without worrying about it's extremely low attack power! You can even use armours like the "Seethru Silk" so you can use some good healing IP Techniques! What a BONUS!
