<a id="s2-10"></a>

## 2.10. Rimuldar

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Wing of the Chimera |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 120-130 Gold |  |  |  |
| Defense Seed |  |  |  |
| Nut of Life |  |  |  |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| Copper Sword         180 | Medical Herb     10 | 24G to Rest |  |
| Iron Axe             560 | Torch             8 | ------------- |  |
| Steel Sword         1500 | Wing of the | -VAULT- |  |
| Iron Armor          1000 | Chimera          24 | (Unavailable) |  |
| Steel Armor         3000 |  |  |  |
| Magic Armor         7700 |  |  |  |

New Town!!!! Woah! I wonder where the Magic Key Shop is. Let's explore the town. Speak to the young lady at the entrance of the town and she'll welcome us to Rimuldar. The Weapon Shop can be found north from the entrance of the town. Speak to the Soldier inside and he'll ask is if we know about the small monolith northwest of Maira. Yes we do. That's the Rain Shrine. The Merchant north of the Weapon Shop is a traveling merchant and he runs the Item Shop. The Inn can be found south of the Weapon Shop. The man inside the Inn is the husband of Cleo from Maira. He finally made it but he got robbed and can't return. We can't unlock the locked doors here yet. Rest at the Inn for 24 Gold. Speak to the young man northwest of the Inn to find out his mother runs the Inn. Speak to the Knight southwest of the Inn and he'll ask us if we're embarrassed wearing a ring. Unequip the Warrior's Ring and speak to him to find out he wants us to find the Fighter's (Warrior's) Ring. We already did. Equip the Warrior's Ring back on Hero. Speak to the Soldier west of the Inn to find out he hasn't found the Magic Key Shop yet. Go to the Building with 2 Rooms west of the Weapon Shop. Speak to the man in the left room to find out the origin and history of Roto is a mystery. The lady in the right room is getting dressed. Search her drawers from the left to find a WING OF THE CHIMERA. Go into the huge building west of the Inn from the northeast opening. Speak to the Merchant to find out he can't open a business with the Evil King Dragon around. The young lady thinks before long, this town will succumb to the demons. The Knight says there are weapons and armors in this world that are formidable enough to stand up against the Evil King Dragon. Speak to the Old Lady behind the counter to find out this is a place of prophecy. She knows we're the descendant of Roto. She'll ask us if we've visited the Holy Monolith. Answer with a NO to find out the Monolith can be found south of Rimuldar. Exit this building. Go to the Old Man found west of the Inn across a bridge. Speak to him to find out according to the ancient legend, Roto traveled to the western tip of this land, and created a rainbow bridge. The Old Man also heard that Roto entered the darkness from a hidden passage in the evil King's room. We've explored the Inner Town. Time to find the Magic Key Shop:

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** 1 Pace = 1 D-Pad Press

From the bridge at the entrance of the Town, go 2 paces east then go north (stay close to the water) to find a young lady. We are currently on the outer part of the Town. Speak to the Lady to find out her name is Nana. Her boyfriend, Rock, is late. Go west to find a bridge. Ignore it for now. Go south to find a young man. He is Rock. Speak to him to inform him that he's at the wrong place and that Nana is waiting for him. In return, he'll tell us something useful. 'Walk 4 paces south from the Bath in Maira to find a good item'. Go up north and go across the bridge then go into the building from the northwest opening. The Magic Key Shop!!!! Search the pots to find 120-130 GOLD and a DEFENSE SEED. Use the Defense Seed on Hero. Speak to the Old Man. He sells Magic Keys for 16 Gold. Buy 6 of them. You can only carry 6 at a time. Now, we have 6 Magic Keys. Return to the Inn and unlock the 2 Doors. Speak to the Old Man to find out when Rain and Sun meet, the Rainbow Bridge will be formed. He'll also tell us the Stones of Sunlight can be found within Radatome Castle. Wait a minute...Rain Staff...Stones of Sunlight....we need those 2 items to form the Rainbow Bridge!!! Open the chest in the Inn to find a NUT OF LIFE. Use it on Hero. Return to the Magic Key Shop and 2 Keys so you'll have 6 again. Next time, I'll tell you to Max out your Magic Keys. That's all for Rimuldar!!! What's next? Let's go check out the Holy Monolith we heard about from the Old Lady but first: Get to Level 12. At Level 12, Hero will learn OUTSIDE. Go to the Weapon Shop and buy Hero a Steel Sword and Steel Armor. Sell your Old Equipments.

**Overworld**

*(Rimuldar Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - MagiDrakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 20) |  |
| - Mage (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 16) |  |
| - Giant Scorpion (EXP - 16) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Skeleton (EXP - 25) (GOLD - 42) |  |
| - Wizard (EXP - 28) (GOLD - 50) |  |
| - Wolf (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 60) |  |
| - Iron Scorpion (EXP - 31) (GOLD - 48) |  |

From Rimuldar, travel south to find a bridge. Go across it.

**Overworld**

*(Holy Monolith Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Undead (EXP - 42) (GOLD - 62) |  |
| - Wolf Mammal (EXP - 52) (GOLD - 80) |  |
| - Gold Man (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 650) |  |
| - Chimera (EXP - 64) (GOLD - 105) |  |

From the bridge, travel south to find a Monolith in a forest Area surrounded by Rocky Mountains but there's an opening south. Go into the Monolith.
