<a id="s2-14"></a>

## 2.14. Pit Stop

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: 330-350 Gold |  |
| --- | --- |
| Magic Key x2 |  |
| Magic Nut |  |
| Agility Seed |  |
| Stones of Sunlight |  |
| Medical Herb |  |
| Nut of Life |  |
| Fairy Flute |  |
| Copper Sword |  |
| 630 Gold |  |
| Torch |  |

**Radatome Castle**

Go down the stairs south. Back on the 1st Floor, of the Castle, speak to the bottom guard near the staircase leading to the Throne Room to find out there's a city protected by a Golem found far south of here. Hmm.... Unlock the door west of the Fountain in the Castle. Speak to the Soldier and he'll say if we're a true Hero, we won't steal anything. Blah! Loot the Chests to find 330-350 GOLD, a MAGIC KEY, a MAGIC NUT and an AGILITY SEED. Use the Magic Nut and Agility Seed on Hero. Exit the room with the chests then go north then east and unlock the door south. Go east then north to reach the northeast outer area of the Castle. The Merchant sells Magic Keys for 24 Gold. Max out your Magic Keys. Speak to the Young Lady and she'll tell you about the ancient legend. We already know it. Go back into the castle and go south. Speak to the Knight to find out there's a secret underground chamber somewhere in the Castle. The lady will pray for our safety. Speak to the Old Man and he'll say May the Light be with us. He'll recover our HP and MP. The other Old Man recovers only our MP so yeah....free Inn in Radatome Castle. Speak to the Soldier to find out if we step on the Ice Floor our HP will be drained. Step on it and get to the other side south. Watch your HP when you step on it. Speak to the Knight. He wants us to go to Garai and push against the wall of darkness. If we do that, a path will opened leading to the Garai Grave. Return to where the Magic Key Shop is. Stand north of the lady then go 2 paces right then go south. Stay close to the Castle Walls. Continue on South to find a staircase near a waterway. Go down it. Speak to the Old Man to find out he holds one of the items given to his ancestors by Roto. He isn't as rude as the other Old Men and he recognizes us as the true descendant of Roto. He'll let us open the chest which contains the Stones of Sunlight. Open the chest to find the STONES OF SUNLIGHT. Speak to the Old Man and he'll decide to go lay down and rest. Search the drawers in the room he goes into to find a MEDICAL HERB and a NUT OF LIFE. Use the Nut of Life on Hero. That's everything we can do in Radatome Castle. Exit the Castle.

**Overworld**

Go into Radatome.

**Radatome**

Go to the building found at the northeast corner of the Town and unlock the door. Go into the house. The Nun here sells Magic Water for 12 Gold. Buy some if you don't like battling weak monsters. Go into the Inn and unlock the door. Speak to the Knight to find out fairies knows how to put Golems to sleep. At the Vault, store your Stones of Sunlight. Exit Radatome

**Overworld**

Travel to Maira and go into it.

**Maira**

Go to the Bathhouse. Let's check out what Rock told us. From the south entrance of the Bathhouse, go 4 paces south. 1 pace = 1 click on the D-Pad 4 pace = 4 clicks on the D-Pad Search the ground to find the FAIRY FLUTE. Cast RETURN.

**Overworld**

Go into Radatome and store your Fairy Flute in the Vault. Go into Radatome Castle and Max out your Magic Keys.

**Overworld**

Alright. Our next stop is Garai. Travel there. Garai is northwest of Roto's Cave.

**Garai**

Unlock the door north of the Inn and go through the opening. Here, speak to the left Soldier to find out he won't tell us where the Grave of Garai is. He wants us to find it ourselves. Speak to the right Soldier to find out about a town called Domdora. The Soldier spent the night at the Inn there which was ran by an Old Man. Speak to the Young Man to find out if you play the Silver Harp, you'll get an instant monster encounter. Speak to the Merchant and he'll call us a Thief. Open the 3 chests to prove him right. You'll find a COPPER SWORD, a TORCH and 630 GOLD. Unlock the door and speak to the Old Woman. She'll give us a MAGIC KEY for opening the door for her. That's nice.... Now, we need to push against the darkness here like the Knight from Radatome Castle says. Go behind the Old Woman's house and position yourself north of the Table. Go north to push through the darkness and discover a path. Go east and speak to the Old Man. He wants us to return from the Grave of Garai with our life if we can but also tells us if we want to die then we should proceed. He'll disappear. Go down the stairs east.
