<a id="s2-15"></a>

## 2.15. Grave of Garai

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Magic Key |  |
| --- | --- |
| 530-540 Gold |  |
| Nut of Life |  |
| 330-350 Gold |  |
| Silver Harp |  |
| Medical Herb |  |
| Nut of Life |  |
| Fairy Flute |  |
| Rain Cloud Staff |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Skeleton (EXP - 25) (GOLD - 42) |  |
| - Drakeema (EXP - 20) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Metro Ghost (EXP - 15) (GOLD - 19) |  |
| - Wizard (EXP - 28) (GOLD - 50) |  |
| - Droll (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Wolf (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 60) |  |
| - Wolf Mammal (EXP - 52) (GOLD - 80) |  |
| - Iron Scorpion (EXP - 31) (GOLD - 48) |  |
| - Hell Ghost (EXP - 47) (GOLD - 72) |  |
| - Medalord (EXP - 56) (GOLD - 95) |  |
| - Droll Mage (EXP - 58) (GOLD - 110) |  |
| - Undead Knight (EXP - 72) (GOLD - 120) |  |

B1F

First things first, cast Radiant. From the entrance of this floor, go north to the end then go east to the end. Ignore all the path north. At the east end when you hit a wall, go north to the end then go west to the end to find 3 Chests. Open them to find a MAGIC KEY, 530-540 GOLD and a NUT OF LIFE. Use the Nut of Life on Hero. From the chest, go back east to the end then go south until you find 2 pillars. From them, go south to find a Door. Unlock it with your Magic Key them go through it and head west to find a staircase going down. Go down it.

B2F

Ignore the staircase going down northeast. It leads to a dead end. Go west to the end to find another staircase going down. Go down it.

B3F

Follow the passage west until you reach a fork going north/south. Go north and open the chest to find 330-350 GOLD. Return to the staircase that brought you to this floor and go back up it.

B2F

Go south to the end to find a staircase going down. Go down it.

B3F

Go north, take the eastern path north to find 4 Pillars. Go north then east from them and go down the staircase you find.

B4F

Go east to find a fork - northeast/southeast. Go northeast and follow the passage east, south then west to find a staircase going up.

B3F

Go northeast and examine the Harp near the gravestone to find the SILVER HARP. We did it! The Old Man back at Rain Shrine needed this right? Get to Level 15 in this Dungeon then cast Outside. At Level 15, Hero learns REPEL.

**Overworld**

Now that we have the Silver Harp, we can go to the Old Man at Rain Shrine and get the Rain Staff. Travel to Maira then make your way to the Rain Shrine from there and go into it.

**Rain Shrine**

Go down the stairs. Speak to the Old Man. He'll let us open the chest after seeing our Silver Harp. After he moves out of the way, open the chest to find the RAIN CLOUD STAFF. Yay! Cast RETURN.

**Overworld**

Go into Radatome. Store your Rain Cloud Staff in the Vault and take your Fairy Flute. Go into Radatome Castle and speak to the King. SAVE YOUR GAME. Max out your Magic Keys as well. Travel to Rimuldar and buy the Magic Armor for Hero. Cast RETURN then travel to Garai. From Garai, travel south and go across the bridge.

**Overworld**

*(Mountain Cave Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Ghost (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Mage (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 16) |  |
| - MagiDrakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 20) |  |
| - Giant Scorpion (EXP - 16) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Skeleton (EXP - 25) (GOLD - 42) |  |

Go south to find the poisonous swamp west of Mountain Cave. From the poisonous swamp west of Mountain Cave, travel south to find a bridge. Go across it.

**Overworld**

*(Domdora Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Undead (EXP - 42) (GOLD - 62) |  |
| - Wolf Mammal (EXP - 52) (GOLD - 80) |  |
| - Gold Man (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 650) |  |
| - Chimera (EXP - 64) (GOLD - 105) |  |
| - Death Scorpion (EXP - 70) (GOLD - 110) |  |
| - Armor Knight (EXP - 78) (GOLD - 150) |  |
| - Shadow Knight (EXP - 90) (GOLD - 148) |  |

From the bridge, travel southwest to a desert area. Go east to find a Ruined Town. Go into it.
