<a id="s2-17"></a>

## 2.17. Melkido

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Defense Seed |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Magic Key |  |  |  |
| Magic Nut |  |  |  |
| Token of Roto |  |  |  |
| WEAPON SHOP 1 | WEAPON SHOP 2 | WEAPON SHOP 3 |  |
| Bamboo Pole      10 | Iron Axe      560 | Flame Sword    9800 |  |
| Club             60 | Steel Sword  1500 | Mirror Shield 14800 |  |
| Copper Sword    180 | Steel Armor  3000 |  |  |
| Leather Clothes  70 | Magic Armor  7700 |  |  |
| Chain Mail      300 |  |  |  |
| Iron Shield     800 |  |  |  |
| ITEM SHOP 1 | ITEM SHOP 2 | - Inn - |  |
| Dragon's Scale   20 | Dragon's Scale 20 | 50G to Rest |  |
| Wing of the | Wing of the | -------------------- |  |
| Chimera          24 | Chimera        24 | - Vault - |  |
|  |  | (Available) |  |

A new town. This town is larger than the others. From the entrance of the Town, the Inn and the Weapon Shop 1 can be found south. Speak to the Soldier in between them to find out we're in the fortress city, Melkido. Speak to the Knight inside the Inn to find out Roto's Armor used to belong to Yukinoff before we found it. Search the drawer in the Inn to find a DEFENSE SEED. Use it on Hero. Rest at the Inn. Speak to the Soldier in the house west of the Inn to find out how powerful the Evil King Dragon is. Answer YES to his question. Go up the stairs in the small building west of the Inn. This is the Vault. Store your Fairty Flute. Go up the stairs in the building east of Weapon Shop 1. Speak to the Soldier to find out long ago when the world was wrapped by darkness, a man descended from the sky. That man was Roto. Jump down through the opening east. Go to the building east of Weapon Shop 1 and unlock the door. The Young Lady runs the Item Shop 1. The Man runs the Weapon Shop 3. Buy the Flame Sword and Mirror Shield for Hero. The Old Man sells Magic Keys for 32 Gold. Speak to the Merchant south of the Shops. He'll say his grandfather told many stories long ago. He remembered hearing that one of his grandfather friends, Yukinoff buried a great treasure under a tree in back of his shop. The Shop back at Domdora at the southeast corner must have been Yukinoff's Shop and the treasure he buried was the Armor of Roto which we now possess. Go to the Building southwest of the Inn. The Man behind the left counter sells Radishes and the Merchant runs the Item Shop 2. The lady is wondering what to cook as a side dish for supper. The young lady east of the Item Shop 2 building says this town was build ad a fortress to prevent monsters from attacking them. Go to the southwest corner of town to find a building. Unlock the door with your Magic Key then speak to the Merchant to find out he's Yukinoff's grandson. Search the drawers to find a MAGIC KEY. Go into the building at the southeast corner of town. The Nun sells Holy Water for 12 GOLD. The Young Man runs the Weapon Shop 2. Search the drawers to find a MAGIC NUT. Go into the Building north of the Weapon Shop 2 building from the west opening. This is a graveyard. The Nun says the people buried here were attacked by demons. Now, for the large building at the center of the Town. Go into it from the west. Speak to the Old Lady to find out if we want to know about the Token, we need to visit the Old Man living in the temple at the south end of town. Exit this building from the south. We have the Armor of Roto so no Damage Tile can harm us. Unlock one of the door or both then make your way to the Old Man. Speak to him. He wants us to search the place near Radatome Castle, that lies 140 to the north and 80 to the west. That's all we can do in the town. Make sure you bought the Flame Sword and Mirror Shield. Sell all your Old Equipments. Max out your Magic Keys. Get to Level 18.

**Overworld**

*(Melkido Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Star Chimera (EXP - 105) (GOLD - 169) |  |
| - Killer Wolf (EXP - 95) (GOLD - 155) |  |
| - Master Wizard (EXP - 120) (GOLD - 185) |  |
| - Dragon (EXP - 135) (GOLD - 160) |  |

From Melkido, go across the bridge north.

**Overworld**

*(Domdora Southern Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Star Chimera (EXP - 105) (GOLD - 169) |  |
| - Killer Wolf (EXP - 95) (GOLD - 155) |  |
| - Shadow Knight (EXP - 90) (GOLD - 148) |  |
| - Armor Knight (EXP - 78) (GOLD - 150) |  |
| - Metal Slime (EXP - 775) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Magic Chimera (EXP - 83) (GOLD - 135) |  |

Go southwest to the bridge I told you to ignore. Go across it now.

**Overworld**

*(Melkido Southern Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Star Chimera (EXP - 105) (GOLD - 169) |  |
| - Shadow Knight (EXP - 90) (GOLD - 148) |  |
| - Magic Chimera (EXP - 83) (GOLD - 135) |  |
| - Killer Wolf (EXP - 95) (GOLD - 155) |  |
| - Master Wizard (EXP - 120) (GOLD - 185) |  |
| - Dragon (EXP - 135) (GOLD - 160) |  |

Go southeast to find a large poisonous swamp area. Now, the Token can be found somewhere on the poisonous swamp. Use the Princess' Love as an item to know your coordinates. When you are 140 paces north and 80 paces west from Radatome, search the ground to find TOKEN OF ROTO. Cast RETURN.
