<a id="s2-2"></a>

## 2.2. Radatome Castle

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: 120 Gold |  |
| --- | --- |
| Torch |  |
| Magic Key |  |
| Medical Herb |  |

We're in a Castle. The King of the Castle is speaking to us. He'll welcome us. It looks like we're the descendant of a legendary Warrior called Roto. The King has been waiting for us to arrive. He'll say long ago the legendary Warrior Roto was given the Ball of Light by the gods. With its powers, Roto was able to defeat the demons that covered this world. Then the Evil King Dragon appeared. He stole the Ball of Light and sealed it away in darkness. Before long, our world may be totally enveloped and destroyed by the darkness. The King wants us to defeat the Evil King Dragon and return the Ball of Light. The items in the 3 chests behind us will aid us in our journey. He gives us the permission to loot them. He also tell us that if we speak to the Soldiers in the room, they will give us important information about our journey. We finally gain control. Speak to the King. He'll say we should come back to him once the preparations of our journey have been completed. Open the 3 chests from left to right to find 120 GOLD, a TORCH and a MAGIC KEY. Nice! Speak to the Minister and he'll ask us if we know about Princess Laura. Answer with a NO to find out Princess Laura is the only beloved daughter of the King. When the Queen passed away, Princess Gwaelin (Laura) helped to support the King's broken heart. Half a year ago, the Princess was captured by monsters. The King never speaks about it but the Minister knows he's sad. He wants us to rescue Princess Laura. Speak to the left Soldier to find out when we leave the Castle, we can find a Town nearby. We can purchase weapons and armors there. If we ever get injured in battle, we can rest at the Inn there as well. Speak to the right Soldier to find out what the Magic Key does. The Key will disappear after we use it once. That's disappointing.... Guess what.... we're about to use our Magic Key. Unlock the door south with your Magic Key. Go down the stairs south. We're near the 2 Soldiers. Speak to them to find out we can save our game with the Imperial Scrolls of Honor if we speak to the King. Go south to find a fountain. Speak to the Young Man near the fountain to find out we are in Radatome. Speak to the Young Lady near the fountain to find out she thinks Princess Laura might be dead. From the Fountain, go east to find 3 pots. Search inside them to find a MEDICAL HERB. Speak to the Soldier to find out we need a Torch to explore a Cave since caves are dark. There are also more monsters in caves than the Overworld. Speak to the Soldier laying down on the floor to find out he's crying since Princess Laura got kidnapped. Go south and speak to the Old Man behind the counter. He'll say when the dragon of darkness spreads its wings, it marks the arrival of the descendant of Roto. He'll say may Light Upon Us and our MP will be recovered fully. Return to the Fountain. From the Fountain again, go west then south to find a Merchant and a boy. Speak to the Merchant to find out he's a traveling merchant. Many of his colleagues were killed by minions of King Dragon (Evil Dragon King). Speak to the boy and he'll ask us if we've heard. Answer with a NO to find out that a town was destroyed by the demons. Go north to find a locked door. We don't have another Magic Key so we can't unlock it right now. Go into the room north with the Knight. Speak to the Knight to find out we need to defeat monsters to gain experience. Exit the room the Knight is in then go north to the outer area of the castle. There's a young couple here. Return to the inner part of the castle. Go east and speak to the Soldier to find out we need a Magic Key to open the door south. We don't have another Magic Key so we can't explore the rest of the Castle yet. Return to the Fountain. Go south and speak to the 2 Soldiers to find out we're in Radatome Castle. Exit the Castle.

**Overworld**

We're not ready to fight any monsters. We don't have any Equipment to survive. There's a Town east of Radatome Castle. Go into it.
