<a id="s2-3"></a>

## 2.3. Radatome

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Wing of the Chimera |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| Bamboo Pole           10 | Medical Herb     10 | 3G to Rest |  |
| Club                  60 | Torch             8 | ------------- |  |
| Copper Sword         180 | Dragon's Scale   20 | -VAULT- |  |
| Plain Clothes         20 |  | (Available) |  |
| Leather Clothes       70 |  |  |  |
| Leather Shield        90 |  |  |  |

Our first Village. Speak to the Young Man at the entrance of the town to find out we are in Radatome. From the entrance of the town, go north to find the Weapon Shop. The lady outside wants us to go inside and speak to the Merchant so we can buy stuff. Go into the Weapon Shop and speak to the Merchant. We currently have only 120 Gold. Buy a Club and Plain Clothes. From the entrance of the town, go south to find the Inn. Go into the Inn. Search the drawer to find a WING OF THE CHIMERA. Speak to the Old Man on the bed to find out we lose HP if we step on poisonous swamps. There's a locked door so we can't speak to the Knight in the west room. Speak to the lady behind the counter south to access the Vault, where we store Items and Gold. 3 Gold to rest at the Inn. Don't rest at the Inn yet. Speak to the Soldier east of the Weapon Shop to find out ad we go across bridges, more stronger monsters will begin to appear. There's a gravestone southeast of the Weapon South. Speak to the Knight near the gravestone to find out many young warriors who sent out on a journey from Radatome ended up dead. Speak to the Merchant walking near the gravestone to find out he's a traveling merchant from Garai, a town found north of Radatome. It's a small town on the northwest peninsula. From the Gravestone, go east to find a house with 2 Rooms. Speak to the Soldier near the house to find out the legendary minstrel, Garai, played a silver harp. The Soldier heard the silver harp was buried with the legendary minstrel. Go into the left room in the house with 2 Rooms. Speak to the Young Man and he'll ask us if we know. Answer with a NO to find out there's a town somewhere that sells Magic Keys. Go into the right room and speak to the Old Man to find out he's working on a spell to undo curses. If we're ever cursed, he wants us to come to him. There's a locked house found north of the house with 2 Rooms. Go to the northeast corner of town to find a Soldier on the floor. Speak to him. He wants us to inform the King that the rescue party for Princess Laura was wiped out. Speak to the Knight east of the Inn. He'll ask us if we have any proof of being the Descendant of Roto. Answer with a NO. Speak to the young lady east of the Inn and she'll start following us around. Go into the Inn and rest with her. >_> Go across the bridge east of the Inn. Speak to the Young Man to find out the Evil King Dragon Castle can be found south of Radatome on the other side of the ocean. Speak to the Merchant and he'll welcome you to the Item Shop. Go into the Building from the west opening. This is the Item Shop. Buy then Equip the Dragon's Scale. This item increases our Defence by 5. That's all for Radatome!

**Overworld**

*(Radatome Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Slime (EXP - 1) (GOLD - 2) |  |
| - Red Slime (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Ghost (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 8) |  |

Train to Level 5. At Level 3, Hero will learn HEAL. At Level 4, Hero will learn FIREBAL. Here's a trick: Use Heal to replenish your HP to Max then return to Radatome Castle and speak to the Old Man that can replenish your MP. We can replenish our HP and MP now so no need to rest at the Inn. At Level 5, you should have at least 200 Gold. Go back into Radatome and buy Leather Clothes and a Leather Shield for Hero. We'll get the Copper Sword later on. Go into the Radatome Castle again.

**Radatome Castle**

Make your way to the Throne Room and speak to the King. He's delighted that we've returned. The King will tell us how many more EXP we need to Level Up. SAVE YOUR GAME. Exit the Castle.

**Overworld**

*(Radatome Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Slime (EXP - 1) (GOLD - 2) |  |
| - Red Slime (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Ghost (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 8) |  |

From Radatome Castle, travel northwest until you find a Cave surrounded by sand. Go into it.
