<a id="s2-5"></a>

## 2.5. Garai

<!-- MIXED -->

| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Club                  60 | Medical Herb     10 | 6G to Rest |  |
| Copper Sword         180 | Torch             8 | ------------- |  |
| Iron Axe             560 | Dragon's Scale   20 | -VAULT- |  |
| Leather Clothes       70 |  | (Unavailable) |  |
| Chain Mail           300 |  |  |  |
| Iron Shield          800 |  |  |  |

A new small town! Speak to the Minstrel at the entrance of the Village and he'll ask you if you'd like to hear a song. Answer a YES. Nice song! Go into the Inn and rest for 6 Gold. There's a locked door north of the Inn. Forget about it for now. Speak to the lady outside the Inn and she'll welcome us to Garai, the town of the ancient minstrel. Speak to the Knight and he'll tell us about Roto's Cave. Speak to the young man inside the Item Shop to find out he saw the monster that kidnapped the Princess take her east. He'll ask us if there's any brave person that will rescue the Princess. Answer with a YES. Speak to the Old Man inside the house south of the Item Shop. He'll say very long ago, after a lengthy struggle, the minstrel, Garai, ended his long journey in this land and built this town. This town was named after him. There's nothing else we can do in this town. Exit the town.

| - Overworld - |  |
| --- | --- |
| (Radatome/Garai Outskirts) |  |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Slime (EXP - 1) (GOLD - 2) |  |
| - Red Slime (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Ghost (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 8) |  |

Train to Level 7 and make sure you have 1100 Gold. At Level 7, Hero will learn SLEEP. You should have a nice amount of money at that level. Back at Garai, buy Hero a Chain Mail and Iron Shield. Time to progress. Travel back to Roto's Cave. From Roto's Cave, travel east to the end then go south a bit to find a Bridge. Go across it. From the bridge, follow the green plains east then southeast to find another bridge. Go across it.

**Overworld**

*(Maira Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Ghost (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Mage (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 16) |  |
| - MagiDrakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 20) |  |
| - Giant Scorpion (EXP - 16) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Skeleton (EXP - 25) (GOLD - 42) |  |

New monsters will now appear after crossing the bridge. They are nothing to worry about. Cast Firebal to finish them off in one turn at Level 7. From the bridge, follow the green plains north until you don't see any anymore. Go northeast to find a village in the middle of a forest. Go into it.
