<a id="s2-6"></a>

## 2.6. Maira

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Strength Seed |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Plain Clothes |  |  |  |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| Copper Sword         180 | Medical Herb     10 | 12G to Rest |  |
| Iron Axe             560 | Torch             8 | ------------- |  |
| Iron Armor          1000 | Dragon's Scale   20 | -VAULT- |  |
| Steel Armor         3000 | Wing of the | (Unavailable) |  |
| Leather Shield        90 | Chimera          24 |  |  |

Speak to the young man at the entrance of the Village to find out we are in Maira. Go west then north to find the Village's Well. This will be our starting point. Speak to the lady near the well to find out the husband of Cleo skipped town to buy some Magic Keys. He left behind his wife. The young lady near the well is Cleo. Speak to the Soldier to find out there's a shop in a town called Rimuldar that sells Magic Keys. From the well, there is a locked door to the west. From the well, go east to find the Weapon Shop. Speak to the Knight inside to find out he's looking for the Legendary Sword. Why would something like that be sold casually in shops??? Speak to the Old Lady north of the Weapon Shop to find out, soon, a beautiful woman will look upon a Hero and fall in love with him. From the well, go northeast to find the Inn. The Man inside the Inn on the bed is dreaming about a Puff Puff session. Rest at the Inn for 12 Gold. Go to the Bathhouse west of the Inn. Speak to the Merchant south of it and he'll ask us if we've traveled to the island south of here. Answer with a NO to find out Rimuldar can be found on the Island. We'll check it out. Go back into the Bathhouse. The young lady outside it will welcome us in. Search the drawers to find a STRENGTH SEED and PLAIN CLOTHES. Use the Strength Seed on Hero. Speak to the young lady in the bath and pay her 20 Gold to receive a Puff Puff. The screen will go black and all you will see is [puff]...[puff].........Rip off! From the Bathhouse, go west to find an Old Man behind a counter which is surrounded by poisonous swamps. We need to speak to the Old Man so bear the poison and speak to him. He will tell us that we can't defeat the Evil King Dragon with our current weapon. He wants us to seek out a sword left behind by Roto. Go into the building south. Speak to the young man to find out someone said they saw a beautiful woman in the cave south of here. Hmm......... Speak to the Soldier to find out about a monster called a Golem. Its weakness is the sound of a flute. The Merchant in this building runs the Item Shop and there's a locked door here as well stopping us from reaching an Old Man. That's all for Maira.

**Overworld**

*(Maira Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Ghost (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Mage (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 16) |  |
| - MagiDrakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 20) |  |
| - Giant Scorpion (EXP - 16) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Skeleton (EXP - 25) (GOLD - 42) |  |

Train to Level 9. At Level 9, Hero will learn RADIANT. Go back into Maira and purchase an Iron Axe and Iron Armor for Hero. Don't forget to sell your old Equipments. From Maira, travel southwest and follow the Forest Path west then travel northwest then north to find a Shrine. Go into it.
