<a id="s2-8"></a>

## 2.8. Mountain Cave

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: 300-350 Gold / Cursed Necklace |  |
| --- | --- |
| 670-680 Gold |  |
| Torch |  |
| Warrior's Ring |  |
| Strength Seed |  |
| Magic Nut |  |
| Iron Shield |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Ghost (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Mage (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 16) |  |
| - Giant Scorpion (EXP - 16) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Skeleton (EXP - 25) (GOLD - 42) |  |
| - Meda (EXP - 14) (GOLD - 21) |  |
| - Drakeema (EXP - 20) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Metro Ghost (EXP - 15) (GOLD - 19) |  |
| - Droll (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Wizard (EXP - 28) (GOLD - 50) |  |

B1F

The Cave is dark. Luckily, now that we have the Radiant Spell, we don't need Torches anymore. Cast Radiant to lit up the Cave. If the cave gets dark again, just cast Radiant again. From the entrance of this cave, go west, south, east, south, east, north then east to be a fork going north/south/east. Go east. Go south then west at the fork to find a body of water. Go north, west, south then west to find a chest containing 300-350 GOLD or a CURSED NECKLACE. The Cursed Necklace will curse Hero if you equip it on him. Don't equip it on him. From the chest, go south to the end, then go east, south, west, north, west to find a fork going north/south. Go north to find a fork going east/west. Go east the go north, west, north, west then north to find a staircase going down. Go down it.

B2F

From the entrance, go east, south, east. Ignore the first room north but go into the second one north as you go east. Open the chest to find 670-680 GOLD. Exit the room then go east and into the next room north. Open the chest to find a TORCH. Exit the room then go east then south. Go west when you can then go north to the end. Go west then go into the room south. There's a Red Carpet, pillars and a chest here. Open the chest to find the WARRIOR'S RING. Equip the Warrior's Ring and the Dragon's Scale on Hero. Now we have 2 Accessories Equipped. Exit the room then go west then south to the end. Go east to find 2 chests. Open them to find a STRENGTH SEED and a MAGIC NUT. Use them both on Hero. Return to the room that contained the Warrior's Ring. Exit the room then go east to the end. Go into the room south with the torches and chest. Open the chest to find an IRON SHIELD. Get to Level 10. At Level 10, Hero will learn STOPSPELL. Now, we need to backtrack and exit the Cave. See you outside.

**Overworld**

*(Mountain Cave Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Ghost (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Mage (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 16) |  |
| - MagiDrakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 20) |  |
| - Giant Scorpion (EXP - 16) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Skeleton (EXP - 25) (GOLD - 42) |  |

Phew! We conquered our first Cave. That Cave was actually optional but we needed the Warrior's Ring. Our next destination is Rimuldar! Before heading back to Maira, stop at Radatome Castle and SAVE YOUR GAME.

**Overworld**

*(Maira Outskirts)*

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Ghost (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Mage (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 16) |  |
| - MagiDrakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 20) |  |
| - Giant Scorpion (EXP - 16) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Skeleton (EXP - 25) (GOLD - 42) |  |

From Maira, travel south until you get to the bridge you crossed to get to Maira Continent. Go southeast from the bridge to find a Cave surrounded by poisonous swamps. Go into it.
