<a id="s3-1"></a>

## 3.1. Introduction

<!-- MODERNIZE:equipment -->

```
Phew! What a quest. We just finished Dragon Quest I. Reload the
 game and select Dragon Quest II.
 After you see the game Title, you'll be taken to the Menu Screen.
 Select Begin A New Adventure.
 Select your Adventure Log then input your Hero name. I named mine
 Hero. After that, select your message speed and let the game
 begin!
 Hmmm...blue sky....a Castle!
 -----------------------------------------
 Ages ago, a young descendant
 of the legendary warrior Roto
 defeated Dragon King,
 and returned light to the world.
 The young man,
 together with his bride,
 left on a journey
 to build several new countries.
 These countries were ruled by the
 children of that young couple,
 and were handed down to
 the following generation.
 100 years have passed since then...
 -----------------------------------------
```

So....the events we are about to experience happened 100 years after Hero (I) defeated the Evil King Dragon. Hmmm..we are shown a Castle called Moonbrook. Moonbrook is located far to the southwest of Laurasia. Laura got a kingdom named after her. We are taken into the Castle. The King of Moonbrook and his daughter are passing time in the courtyard.....however....an earthquake!? Is the Castle under attack!? A Soldier will make his way to the courtyard and will inform the King that the forces of the Evil Priest Hargon have invaded the Castle. Of course they did. Who is Hargon by the way. Anyway, the King won't surrender without a fight. When the Soldier leaves the courtyard, he'll be killed by a monster. The King will lead his daughter, Linda to a secret staircase and tells her to hide. The monster is getting closer. The King must inform the King of Laurasia about the situation. The monster is getting closer. The King will easily defeat it. 2 more demons will surround the King. Meanwhile, a demon that was imprisoned north will escape and attack the King from behind. The Princess will go down the staircase. The Castle is in flames. Everyone is getting killed. One of the Soldiers will survive and will take it upon himself to report what is happening here to the King of Laurasia. At the Overworld, the Soldier will watch his Castle burn before venturing on to Laurasia Castle. The Soldier is injured but makes it to Laurasia Castle.
