<a id="s3-10"></a>

## 3.10. Moonpeta

<!-- MIXED -->

| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Chain Whip           330 | Medical Herb     10 | 12G to Rest |  |
| Iron Spear           770 | Antidote Herb     8 | ------------- |  |
| Steel Sword         1500 | Holy Water       40 | -VAULT- |  |
| Chain Mail           390 | Wing of the | (Available) |  |
| Steel Armor         1000 | Chimera          25 | ------------- |  |
| Steel Shield        2000 | Leather Shield   90 | -CHURCH- |  |
|  | Sacred Knife    200 | (Available) |  |

NEW TOWN! Speak to the Lady at the entrance of the town to find out she used to be a servant in Laurasia Castle long ago. Speak to the man near her to find out we are in Moonpeta. Go into the Inn found south of the entrance of the Town. Speak to the Merchant to find out there was an incident with a Thief in the vicinity of Sumaltria Castle. He was caught and thrown in jail. Speak to the man southeast of the Inn to find out there's a cloak inside a tower somewhere that lets you float through the skies. If we put on the cloak and jump from a high place, he'll be able to float for a short time. Go east of the Inn to find the Weapon Shop. Speak to the Knight to find out Moonbrook Castle can be found southwest of here. Powerful monsters roam around Moonbrook Castle. At the Weapon Shop, buy Rolando an Iron Spear and buy Hero a Steel Sword. The woman behind the counter runs the Item Shop. Speak to the man north of the Weapon Shop and he'll ask us if we have a Lottery Ticket. Answer with a YES and he'll say we shouldn't get caught up in the Lottery Mini Game. The man behind the counter north of the Weapon Shop runs the Lottery. The Church can be found north of the Lottery. The lady inside the Church runs the Vault. Speak to the Old Man west of the Church and SAVE YOUR GAME. Speak to the Dog and he'll follow you around town after whimpering. There's a Gold Door north of the Inn. We can't unlock it. Step on the dark grass northwest of the Gold Door. Go west and speak to the Soldier to find out he fled from Moonbrook Castle. The Princess of Moonbrook name is Linda. That's everything we can do in this Town. Let's go check out Moonbrook Castle.

**Overworld**

| (Moonpeta Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Army Ant (EXP - 4) (GOLD - 2) |  |
| - Armor Centipede (EXP - 14) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Taho Drakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Magician (EXP - 10) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Mandrill (EXP - 33) (GOLD - 45) |  |
| - Lizard Fly (EXP - 20) (GOLD - 12) |  |
| - Smoke (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 40) |  |

| (Moonbrook Castle Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Giant Rat (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 5) |  |
| - Laliho Ant (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Armor Centipede (EXP - 14) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Taho Drakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Lizard Fly (EXP - 20) (GOLD - 12) |  |
| - Smoke (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 40) |  |
| - Living Dead (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 25) |  |

From Moonpeta, go across the bridge south first. Go south then follow the green plains west to find a Desert Area. Go south to find a Castle surrounded by a poisonous swamp. This is Moonbrook Castle. Go into it.
