<a id="s3-12"></a>

## 3.12. Mirror of Ra

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Mirror of Ra |

**Overworld**

Go into Moonpeta and buy Hero a Silver Shield and Silver Armor. From Moonbrook Castle, travel east until you find a bridge. Don't go across it. There's a poisonous swamp east. I'm sure you've noticed the other 3 bridges north making it 4 bridges! Search the northeast part of the poisonous swamp to find the MIRROR OF RA. Cast RETURN then go into Moonpeta.

**Moonpeta**

Go to where the Dog is. Stand in front of it and use the Mirror of Ra as an item. The Mirror of Ra will scatter and then the curse inflicted on Linda will be broken. Linda will join our party. Go to the Item Shop and buy a Sacred Knife for Linda. SAVE YOUR GAME.

**Overworld**

Train your Party Level to: Hero (15) Rolando (13) Linda (7) Linda already has the HEALMORE Spell at Level 1. At Level 12, Rolando will learn OUTSIDE. At Level 2, Linda will learn SLEEP At Level 4, Linda will learn INFERNOS At Level 6, Linda will learn SURROUND You can travel to Moonbrook Castle and go Metal Slime hunting if you want. Time to progress. Go into Moonbrook Castle.

**Moonbrook Castle**

Speak to the spirit of the King of Moonbrook Castle. Enjoy the heartwarming moment....exit the Castle.

**Overworld**

| (Wind Tower Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Babble (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Laliho Ant (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Smoke (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 40) |  |
| - Living Dead (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Centipede (EXP - 33) (GOLD - 25) |  |

Our next mission is to get the cloak that allows us to float for some time when we jump from high places. From Moonpeta, travel east to find a bridge. Do not go across it. Travel north to find another bridge. Go across it then travel southeast then south south to find a bridge. Go across it. Travel southeast to find 3 bridges. Cross them then go west to find a Tower. Go into it.
