<a id="s3-13"></a>

## 3.13. Wind Tower

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Medical Herb |  |
| --- | --- |
| 335-350 Gold |  |
| Wind Mantle |  |
| Prayer Ring |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Specter (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Laliho Ant (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - King Cobra (EXP - 9) (GOLD - 9) |  |
| - Giant Rat (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 5) |  |
| - Living Dead (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Magician (EXP - 10) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Smoke (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 40) |  |
| - Centipede (EXP - 33) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Goblin Rat (EXP - 23) (GOLD - 25) |  |

1F

Our first Tower Dungeon. Go to the southeast corner of this floor to find a chest containing a MEDICAL HERB. Go down the stairs at the northeast corner of this floor.

2F

Speak to the Knight and he'll ask you if you agree that you should watch your step when walking along the outer edges of the tower. Answer with a YES. Be careful so you won't fall down to the Bottom of the Tower. Go up the stairs west.

3F

Go south to find a chest and a staircase going up. Open the chest to find 335-350 GOLD then go up the stairs.

4F

Go east to find a staircase going up. Go up it.

5F

Go west then north and go down the stairs.

4F

Go down the stairs.

3F

Go down the stairs.

2F

Examine the item on the floor to find the WIND MANTLE. This must be the cloak that allows us to float for a short period of time. Let's try it out. Equip it on Hero as an accessory. Go back up the stairs.

3F

Go back up the stairs.

4F

Go back up the stairs.

5F

Go back south then east and go down the stairs.

4F

Go east to find a staircase going up. Go up it.

5F

Go up the stairs north.

6F

There's lots of staircases in the enclosed middle part of this floor. Go up the stairs at the northwest corner.

7F

Go up the stairs.

8F

Open the chest to find a PRAYER RING. That item is a rare item. If you use it as an item, the person holding it will recover some MP. If you use it too much, it will break.....(^_^'). Save it for the End-game. Go back down the stairs you came from.

7F

Fall from the west edge.

**Overworld**

| (Monolith West of Moonbrook Castle Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Babble (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Laliho Ant (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Smoke (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 40) |  |
| - Living Dead (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Centipede (EXP - 33) (GOLD - 25) |  |

As you can see, we are more than 5 paces from the Wind Tower. That's how the Mind Mantle works. How is it useful? You'll find out soon. Train and get Linda to Level 8 so she can learn the REPEL Spell. RETURN to Moonpeta. Rest at the Inn. Now that we have 3 Party Members, Inn cost will be tripled. From Moonbrook Castle, travel southwest to find a bridge. Go across it then travel south to find a Monolith. Go into it.
