<a id="s3-16"></a>

## 3.16. Lupegana

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Ship |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| Wizard's Staff      2500 | Medical Herb     10 | 20G to Rest |  |
| Sacred Knife         200 | Antidote Herb     8 | ------------- |  |
| Steel Sword         1500 | Holy Water       40 | -VAULT- |  |
| Evasion Clothes     1250 | Wing of the | (Available) |  |
| Steel Armor         1000 | Chimera          25 | ------------- |  |
| Steel Shield        2000 | Bell Amulet     640 | -CHURCH- |  |
|  |  | (Available) |  |

We made it.... Speak to the lady at the entrance of the Town and she'll welcome us to the harbor town of Lupegana. Go into the Inn east from the entrance of the Town and rest. Go into the building west of the Inn. Speak to the Soldier to find out he came from the eastern land of Alefgard. Hey! That's the continent Dragon Quest I was played on. I guess it still exist even after 100 years. There's a rumor that the King of the country has disappeared. We need to check it out but how will we get across to the Eastern Lands? Speak to the Old Men. The top one runs the Church while the bottom one can SAVE YOUR GAME. Save your game. Now, whenever we cast RETURN, we will be teleported to this town. Go north of the Inn to find a Merchant behind a counter. He runs the Lottery. The man nearby is drunk and is looking for a hot babe. He tries to hit on Linda. The other man tells us Alefgard is the eastern continent. He'll also tell you that long ago Hero (I) and Laura came from that country. Hero (I) is apparently called Roto now. The Bunny Lady north of the Church will offer Hero a Puff Puff section for free. If you refuse, she'll say Hero is a homosexual and Hero is not so accept her offer. It's the same as Dragon Quest I. The screen will go dark and all you can see is [puff]....[puff].....[puff].....Rip off! The Old Man north of the Lottery is blocking us from getting on the Ship. He refuses to hand the Town's Old Ship to us but we need it! Go west of the Lottery to find the Weapon Shop and Item Shop. The lady behind the counter north of the Weapon Shop runs the Vault. At the Weapon Shop, buy Rolando and Linda a Wizard's Staff. Buy Hero, Rolando and Linda Evasion Clothes. Sell all your Old Equipments. At the Item Shop, buy the Bell Amulet for Hero, Rolando and Linda. Make sure you equip it on them. Go west of the Weapon Shop to find 2 monsters harassing a young lady. The young lady will run over to us and will ask us to help her. The monsters will come closer to us and will tell us to hand over the girl. Answer with a NO so we can battle. 2 Gremlins. East battle. Hero should just focus on attacking normally. Rolando should cast Stopspell while Linda should cast Surround. After that, attack them with full force. After the battle, the young lady we saved will take us to her grandfather. It's the Old Man that refused to led us the Town's Old Ship. The Old Man will loan is the SHIP! We now have a Ship and we can access the Sea. We couldn't do that in Dragon Quest 1. Get aboard your Ship. There's an opening north and a Silver Door south. Unlock the Silver Door and dock south. Go into the building from the west opening. Speak to the Merchant to find out a Ship carrying treasures sank on a stormy night. By chance, he passed the area where the ship went under. He tried to salvage it but was unsuccessful. He wants us to get the treasure in the Ship and bring it to him...hmm.....he didn't even give us directions. Exit his house and get aboard your Ship. Sail back north and go through the opening north. Sail east to get to the Overworld with your Ship.

**Overworld**

| (Sea) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Specter (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Numbness Jellyfish (EXP - 25) (GOLD - 50) |  |
| - Sea Slug (EXP - 80) (GOLD - 34) |  |

| (Monolith North of Lupegana Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Metal Slime (EXP - 1015) (GOLD - 90) |  |
| - Living Dead (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Prayer (EXP - 37) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Death God (EXP - 50) (GOLD - 44) |  |
| - Mud Doll (EXP - 32) (GOLD - 35) |  |
| - Baboon (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 45) |  |

We can dock anywhere we want with our Ship. From Lupegana, sail north, then northwest and dock on the Forest Area on the northern part of Island Lupegana is on. There's a Shrine nearby southwest. Go into it.
