<a id="s3-18"></a>

## 3.18. Radatome Castle

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Holy Water |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| Wizard's Staff      2500 | Medical Herb     10 | 2G to Rest |  |
| Steel Sword         1500 | Antidote Herb     8 | ------------- |  |
| Giant Hammer        4000 | Holy Water       40 | -VAULT- |  |
| Evasion Clothes     1250 | Wing of the | (Unavailable) |  |
| Steel Armor         1000 | Chimera          25 | ------------- |  |
| Iron Helmet         3150 | Bell Amulet     640 | -CHURCH- |  |
|  |  | (Available) |  |

Speak to the Soldier and he'll welcome us to Radatome Castle. Go north to find a fountain. Speak to the Young Man and he'll ask your party if they're descendants of Roto. Answer with a YES. Speak to the young lady and she'll tell us Laura lived in this Castle long ago. She'll also talk about Hero (I) a bit before welcoming us to Alefgard. Go east of the fountain. The Priest behind the counter north will SAVE YOUR GAME. Do so and make sure you don't save anywhere else. The other Priest runs the Church. The Old Man south behind the counter is the "May the light shine upon thee" He refills your party's MP. Go north of the fountain and go up the stairs. Unlock the Silver Door then speak to the Soldier to find out the current King fears Hargon and has hidden himself somewhere. Go back down the stairs From the fountain, go southwest and speak to man with the white turban. He'll ask us if we know the story about the sunken treasure. Answer with a NO to find out long ago, a very rich merchant was living in the vicinity of the harbor of Lupegana. However, his ship was piled up too high with the treasures, and sank from the weight. It went under in the middle of the open sea to the north. Speak to him again and answer NO to his question, you'll find out the spot where the Sunken Treasure is in the ocean is sparkling. Go north of the white turban man and speak to the Soldier to find out the Golden Key is needed to unlock Gold Doors. The Soldier east says the King has gone missing. The Old Man in the small room west of the fountain removes curses inflicted on anyone in our party. Search inside the pot next to him to find a HOLY WATER. Speak to the young man nearby to find out Radatome and Radatome Castle merged together. They were seperate long ago (Dragon Quest I). There's a Gold Door north of the Old Man that removes curses. Go west of the Old Man that removes curses to find the Weapon Shop. Buy Hero a Giant Hammer and Iron Helmet. Sell your Old Equipments. Go up the stairs in the Weapon Shop. The King is here but we can't reach him. The Gold Door is in our way. Go south of the Weapon Shop go find the Inn. Rest. Go across the bridge east of the Inn to find the Merchant that runs the Item Shop. That's everything we can do here as for now. Exit Radatome Castle.
