<a id="s3-2"></a>

## 3.2. Laurasia Castle

<!-- MIXED -->

<!-- MODERNIZE:equipment -->

```
| Item Checklist: 50 Gold                                      |
 |                 Copper Sword                                 |
 |==============================================================|
 |      -WEAPON SHOP-       |     -ITEM SHOP-     |    -INN-    |
 |--------------------------|---------------------|-------------|
 | None                     | Medical Herb     10 | 4G to Rest  |
```

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | Antidote Herb     8 | ------------- |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | Leather Shield   90 | -VAULT- |  |
|  |  | (Unavailable) |  |
|  |  | -CHURCH- |  |
|  |  | (Unavailable) |  |

The Soldier made it. He'll collapse near 2 other guards. The 2 guards will help the fallen Soldier to reach the King. At the Throne Room, the Soldier will tell the King what happened in Moonbrook. Hargon called upon an Evil God to fulfill his intension to destroy the world. The Soldier will die. We are the boy in Blue. That's us! The King is our father. He wants us to defeat Hargon. He'll say once we are prepared for our journey we should come and see him. Before leaving, the King will tell his Soldier to give the dead Soldier a proper burial. You'll gain control. The Soldier in yellow is dead. The Minister says it's sad to see us leave. The Soldier prays for our safe return. Go down the stairs. The King will tell us to open the chest to our left. Speak to the King and he'll say we should open the chest and prepare for our journey. He also says in Sumaltria and Moonbrook, there are others who share the blood of Roto. If we combine our power with those people, we can defeat the forces of evil. Open the chest to find 50 GOLD and a COPPER SWORD, Equip the Copper Sword on Hero. Speak to the Soldier south and he'll remind you to Equip all the Weapons and Armors you get. Talk to the young man south of the Soldier to find out there's a town called Liriza west of this Castle. Travelers who head for Sumaltria stop there to rest. Go through the northwest opening of the room east. There's 2 locked doors here so exit this room from where you came into it. Go west of the young man who told you about Liriza. Speak to the Old Man to find out anyone who steps on a Traveler's Gate will instantly be teleported to a far away land. The Traveler's Gate across the bridge east leads to an island somewhere. Ignore the Traveler's Gate. Go south of the Traveler's Gate and speak to the Merchant to find out there is a young Prince of Sumaltria and a princess of Moonbrook. We saw the Princess but we don't know what became of her. Go north of the Traveler's Gate to find 2 locked doors to your left and right....we need Magic Keys...or does this game have a different Key? Speak to the young lady to find out she might love Hero but she doesn't confess. Speak to the Priest behind the counter and he'll tell us to visit Churches in the future towns we visit. Go to the Castle Entrance. Speak to the Soldier and he'll welcome you to Laurasia Castle. Is that a dog!? That's a new sprite if you're coming from Dragon Quest 1. We can rest at the Inn for 4 Gold but don't. The Merchant behind the left counter runs the Item Shop. We can't afford the Leather Shield yet. Exit the Castle.

**Overworld**

| (Laurasia Castle Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Slime (EXP - 1) (GOLD - 2) |  |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |

| (Liriza Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Iron Ant (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Specter (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 6) |  |

Train to Level 5. At Level 5, you should have a decent amount of money now. Go back into Laurasia Castle and buy the Leather Shield. Equip it on Hero. Buy some Medical Herbs. Shop Owners may give you a Lottery Ticket when you buy their wares. I'll tell you what they are used for later. Go to the Throne Room and speak to the King. He'll tell us how much EXP we need to level up. He always records our journey in the Imperial Scrolls of Honor! SAVE YOUR GAME. From Laurasia Castle, travel west until you reach a Desert Area. From there, continue on west to reach a poisonous swamp. Don't step on it. Go west from it to find a town. Get to Level 6 then go into the Town.
