<a id="s3-20"></a>

## 3.20. Zahan

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Gold Key |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| None | Medical Herb     10 | 30G to Rest |  |
|  | Holy Water       40 | ------------- |  |
|  | Wing of the | -VAULT- |  |
|  | Chimera          25 | (Unavailable) |  |
|  | Bell Amulet     640 | ------------- |  |
|  |  | -CHURCH- |  |
|  |  | (Unavailable) |  |

Speak to the young lady at the entrance of the Town and she'll welcome you to the fishermen's town, Zahan. Right now the men are all out fishing. The Inn can be found north from the entrance of the Town. The young lady near the Inn says when its Spring, her lover Luke, will return from fishing. Speak to the Old Man to find out this town is currently only filled with women. Speak to the Merchant in the Inn to find out the Ships of the men of this town were attacked by monsters, and lost at sea... He came here to learn about that situation. Rest at the Inn. Step on the Dark Grass west of the Inn then go 2 paces west then go north to find a man at the northwest corner of the Town. Speak to him to find out he is pursuing a man named Rogue Fastfinger. The man came searching for him from a town named Tepa until he stopped here. He heard Fastfinger was thrown into a jail somewhere. Go to the house southeast of the Inn. The lady inside says while the men are out fishing, the women stay at home and take care of the children. Speak to the little girl to find out there's a cave somewhere in the seas surrounded by corals. Her aunt told her that we need the Moon Fragment to access the Cave. The little boy wants to become a Fisherman when he grows up. Go up the stairs. The lady here is Tashisun's wife. She'll tell us that Tashisun is very fond of dogs. 3 winters has passed but her husband hasn't returned home. She hopes he's alright. Go to the building east of the Inn. The Nun will tell us not to go into the Temple. She's right. The Ice Tiles will take too much of your health. Leave it for now.

<!-- MIXED -->

Go east of the Temple to find the Item Shop. The young lady south of the Item Shop says when the Moon Fragment illuminates the star-filled sky, the waters of the ocean become full. What she told us is an ancient legend that is handed down in this town. Speak to the little boy near the Item Shop to find out the barking dog north of the Item Shop pulled on his sleeve. Speak to the Dog north of the Item Shop. It will bark then run off east and then bark again which means it's telling you to come over. Go to the dog and search the ground west of it to find the GOLD KEY!!!! We found it! That's everything we can do in this town for now.

**Overworld**

| (Monolith West of Zahan Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Slime (EXP - 1) (GOLD - 2) |  |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |

Go into the Monolith west of Zahan.
