<a id="s3-21"></a>
## 3.21. Monolith West of Zahan

<a id="s3-22"></a>

## 3.22. Pit Stop 2

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Nut of Life |  |
| --- | --- |
| Medical Herb |  |
| 1195-1210 Gold |  |
| Strength Seed |  |
| Token of Roto |  |
| Magic Nut |  |
| Shield of Roto |  |

**Laurasia Castle**

We got teleported to Laurasia Castle. Now you know where the Traveler's Gate in Laurasia Castle leads to. We have the Gold Key now so let's go get some items. Go into the East Room in the Castle. Unlock the south door. It's a Gold Door. Speak to the Soldier and he'll think we're thieves. He'll let us loot once he recognizes Hero. Well....LOOT!!!!! WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR!!! NUT OF LIFE MEDICAL HERB, 1195-1210 GOLD STRENGTH SEED TOKEN OF ROTO MAGIC NUT Use Magic Nuts on Rolando or Linda since it's pointless to use it on Hero. We have the Token of Roto! Next stop is Sumaltria Castle. Exit Laurasia Castle and travel there.

**Sumaltria Castle**

Unlock the Gold Door northwest of the Prisons. Speak to the Old Man and he'll tell us to open the chest. Open the chest to find the SHIELD OF ROTO!!! Equip it on Hero. Go up the stairs in the Throne Room. Unlock the Gold Door to access the King's Chambers. There's nothing here! Why would they use a Gold Door to lock it. Next stop is Moonpeta. Travel there from Sumaltria Castle.

**Moonpeta**

Unlock the Gold Door northwest of the Lottery. Go down the stairs. There are monsters behind Prison Doors here. Ignore them and go up the stairs west. Speak to the Old Man near the campfire to find out that there is the Monolith of Spirit somewhere on the cast ocean. If we obtain the 5 Crests, we will be able to call forth the Spirit there. That's all for this town. Travel back to Laurasia Castle and step on the Traveler's Gate.
