<a id="s3-24"></a>

## 3.24. Perpoy

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Jailor's Key |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Watergate Key |  |  |  |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP 1- | -INN- |  |
| Giant Hammer        4000 | Medical Herb     10 | 40G to Rest |  |
| Dragon Killer       8000 | Antidote Herb     8 | ------------- |  |
| Light Sword        16000 | Wing of the | -VAULT- |  |
| Mink Coat          65000 | Chimera          25 | (Available) |  |
| Power Shield       21500 | Bell Amulet     640 | ------------- |  |
| Iron Helmet         3150 | --------------------- | -CHURCH- |  |
|  | -ITEM SHOP 2- | (Available) |  |
|  | Medical Herb     10 |  |  |
|  | Antidote Herb     8 |  |  |
|  | 2000 |  |  |
|  | Wing of the |  |  |
|  | Chimera          25 |  |  |

Huh? Where is everyone. Speak to the Young Man to find out everyone disappeared and left him behind. There's a Dog here. Unlock the Gold Door and go down the stairs. It's an UNDERGROUND TOWN!!!! Speak to the young lady at the entrance of the Town and she'll welcome us to Perpoy, a town south of the mountains of Rhone. They didn't want to fall under Hargon's curse so they built this town underground. The Weapon Shop is ran by the Merchant behind the counter west of the entrance of the Town. Buy only the Dragon Killer for Hero. The other items are too costly. We'll be back for them later in the game. Go through the building with the east opening west of the Weapon Shop. Speak to the Old Man to find out about Don Mahone. He lives in Tepa and he's a master of making the Angel's Robe of Water. He can only make one. Go into the building southwest of the Weapon Shop. The man behind the counter runs the Item Shop 2. Purchase the Blank Spot for 2000 Gold. It's the JAILOR'S KEY!!! Speak to the Priest south of the Item Shop 2 to find out Hargon is skillful at creating illusions. However, if we have the protection of the spirit of the earth, Rubiss, we can break through the illusions. Go into the building south of the Weapon Shop. The man here will ask us if we came here to buy the Jailor's Key. Answer with a YES to find out he doesn't know where it's sold. The Merchant runs the Item Shop. The Lady runs the Vault. The other Merchant south runs the Lottery. Go south of the Item Shop 2 to find the Inn. The lady inside the Inn is looking for the bathhouse. Go east of the Inn to find the Church. Speak to the Soldier to find out he saw the rocks at the foot of the mountains northwest of this town open. Speak to the young man to find out he's Luke! Luke is the husband of the young lady back at Zahan. Luke lost his memories. The little boy inside the Church is sleeping. The Priest runs the Church. Go into the building north of the Church from the southwest opening. Speak to the Soldier to find out he threw Rogue Fastfinger into jail but he disappeared. Unlock the Gold Door then head north to the 2 Jails. We have the Jailor's Key now so we can unlock Prison Doors. Unlock the left one and speak to the Old Man to find out the Evil Priest Hargon lives deep inside Rhone, surrounded by mountains. We need the Eye of Malroth to open the path to Rhone. Go into the right Jail now. There's a crack on the floor. Step on it then go east through the secret door. Speak to Rogue Fastfinger. He'll give us the WATERGATE KEY as an apology for escaping. That's everything to do in this town. We got 2 Keys! Exit the Town.
