<a id="s3-25"></a>

## 3.25. Pit Shop 3

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Staff of Thunder |  |
| --- | --- |
| Water Crest |  |

**Overworld**

The last place I told you to Save Your Game was at Radatome Castle so cast RETURN so you can get there.

**Radatome Castle**

Unlock the Gold Door east of the Weapon Shop. Speak to the young lady behind the counter to find out she runs the Sewing Shop. She'll ask us if we want a Dew's Yarn. Answer with a YES to find out they just ran out of Dew's Yarn. She'll tell us that the Dew's Yarn is a blessing of the sky. It is carried by the wind but always land on the third floor of the North Dragon's Horn. Go up the stairs in Weapon Shop and unlock the Gold Door. Speak to the King. He will lie that he's living in retirement here in the Weapon Shop. SAVE YOUR GAME. Travel to Laurasia Castle. Use the Traveler's Gate in the Monolith West of Zahan.

**Laurasia Castle**

You remember where the Prison Area of this Castle is right? right?? Err....go into the East room, unlock the Silver Door and exit from the north opening. Go down the staircase. Here we are. Unlock the prison door with the prisoner that told us to get the Jailor's Key. Speak to him. He'll tell us something useful. He'll tell us that the Life Crest is in the Cave that leads to Rhone. Unlock the other Prison Door and cast Stepguard. Unlock the Prison Door with the Priest. Speak to the Priest. He's actually a monster! A Demon Priest. Be careful. Fight him with caution. Cast Stopspell at the beginning of the battle. Linda should cast Defense to lower his Defense. Cast Healmore if anyone in your party has low health. The Demon Priest will drop the STAFF OF THUNDER. Equip it on Linda. That's all for this Town. Next stop is Sumaltria Castle. Travel there from Laurasia Castle.

**Sumaltria Castle**

Free the Prisoners. Nothing else to do here. Make your way to Moonpeta next.

**Moonpeta**

Unlock the Gold Door northwest of the Lottery. Go down the stairs. Ahh yes. Let's free the monsters and battle them. 2 Vebirs. Easy enough. Fight with caution. After defeating them, use the Echoing Flute as an item to hear a melody react to your melody. Search the northeast corner to find the WATER CREST. That's our first Crest! You can view your Crests by viewing a Character Status. It's found below the EXP stat. Now that we have all that, we can progress a bit.

**Overworld**

The next thing we need to find is the Dew's Yarn found in the North Dragon's Horn. Travel to the South Dragon's Horn and get to the top of the Tower then jump down from the NORTH opening. On the other side of the river, go into the North Dragon's Horn.
