<a id="s3-29"></a>

## 3.29. King Dragon Castle

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Sword of Roto |  |
| --- | --- |
| 145-155 Gold |  |
| World Map |  |
| Strength Seed |  |
| Steel Armor |  |
| Sacred Loom |  |
| Prayer Ring |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Mummy Man (EXP - 44) (GOLD - 40) |  |
| - Gremlin (EXP - 47) (GOLD - 52) |  |
| - Saber Wolf (EXP - 45) (GOLD - 55) |  |
| - Gorgon Head (EXP - 62) (GOLD - 50) |  |
| - Basilisk (EXP - 41) (GOLD - 58) |  |
| - Dragon Fly (EXP - 59) (GOLD - 43) |  |

1F

The Castle is in Ruins. Go north to find a staircase going down. Go down it.

B1F

Go west, south then east and go down the staircase you find.

B2F

Go southeast, southwest, northwest then northeast and go down the stairs.

B3F

Go east then north to find a staircase going down. Ignore it. Go west from it then south to find another staircase going down. Go down it.

B4F

There are 3 staircases in this room (excluding the one you came from). Take the one going up in the middle of this floor.

B3F

Go up the stairs.

B2F

Go up the stairs.

B1F

Go down the stairs.

B2F

Open the chest to find the SWORD OF ROTO. Equip it on Rolando. Go back up the stairs.

B1F

Go down the stairs.

B2F

Go down the stairs.

B3F

Go down the stairs.

B4F

Go down the stairs in the middle of this floor near to the stairs going up.

B5F

Go south, west then north and go down the stairs.

B6F

Go down the staircase east.

B7F

What the heck. Is that the Evil King Dragon!? Cast Stepguard. Go north to find Ice Damage Tiles. They can't hurt us because of Stepguard. Step on them. Go north and unlock the Silver Door. Open the 4 chests to find: 145-155 GOLD WORLD MAP!!!! STRENGTH SEED STEEL ARMOR Exit the room with the Icy Damage Tiles and Chests. Go west then north. Go east then south. Go across the 2 bridges then go south then west to reach the Evil King Dragon. Speak to him to find out he's the Great Grandson of the Evil King Dragon. He heard that Hargon has grown an enormous size. He also says Hargon's face is grotesque. Quite unpleasant. He wants us to defeat Hargon and in return, he'll tell us something useful and will let us take his place as the ruler of this Castle. Answer with a YES. He'll tell us to collect the 5 Crests and get the protection of Rubiss. He'll tell us that there's a small island in the sea, south of a town from long ago called Melkido. He wants us to go there. If we get the 5 Crests and the protection of Rubiss, we can defeat Hargon. Cast Outside.

**Overworld**

Go ahead and open up your World Map. Let me explain:

The Quill on the World Map shows where you currently are. The Northeast Continent is where you can find: Laurasia Castle Liriza Sumaltria Castle Spring of Bravery Monolith South of Laurasia Castle Lake Cave Monolith West of Sumaltria Castle The Northern Part of the Middle Continent is where you can find: Moonpeta Moonbrook Castle Wind Tower Monolith West of Moonbrook Castle The Northwestern Part of the Middle Continent is where you can find: South Dragon's Horn North Dragon's Horn Lupegana Monolith North of Lupegana The Small Continent which you are currently on is the Kingdom of Alefgard. It's found east of Lupegana. The 2 Small Dots at the Southeast Corner of the World Map is Zahan and the Shrine West of Zahan. The Southeastern part of the Middle Continent is where Perpoy is as well as the World Tree Island. The World isn't flat so if you sail beyond the Western End of the World Map, you'll end up at the Eastern End.

I've pointed out all the areas we've been to. Now, we need to get 2 items before heading to small island the Grandson of King Dragon told us about. Set sail to Zahan. I've already told you where it is on the World Map. It's the 2 Small Dots at the Southeast corner of the World Map.

**Zahan**

<!-- MIXED -->

Go to the Temple. Cast Stepguard and step on the Icy Damage Tiles. Unlock the west Prison Door and open the chest to find the SACRED LOOM. Unlock the east Prison Door and open the chest to find a PRAYER RING. That's our Second Prayer Ring. I told you to save them for the End-game. Cast RETURN so you'll be at Radatome Castle with your Ship east of you.

**Overworld**

| (Lighthouse Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Laliho Ant (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Smoke (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 40) |  |
| - Taho Drakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Poison Kiss (EXP - 31) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Saber Wolf (EXP - 45) (GOLD - 55) |  |
| - Orc (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 50) |  |

If you cast the RETURN spell to get back to Radatome Castle then your Ship should be east of Radatome Castle. Get aboard it. From where it's parked, sail south, east then sail south until you find an Island with a Tower. Dock. Make sure your party Level is: Hero (20) Rolando (18) Linda (14) At Level 18, Rolando will learn FIREBANE. Go into the Tower. In case my direction is not clear:

World Map: Sail to the Small Dot South of the Kingdom of Alefgard.
