<a id="s3-3"></a>

## 3.3. Liriza

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Lottery Ticket |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| Club                  60 | Medical Herb     10 | 6G to Rest |  |
| Copper Sword         100 | Antidote Herb     8 | ------------- |  |
| Sacred Knife         200 | Wing of the | -VAULT- |  |
| Chain Whip           330 | Chimera          25 | (Available) |  |
| Chain Mail           390 |  | ------------- |  |
| Leather Shield        90 |  | -CHURCH- |  |
|  |  | (Available) |  |

Yeah! We made it! Speak to the Soldier at the entrance of the town to find out we're in Liriza. Go into the building west from the entrance of town. The Merchant runs the Item Shop and the Lady runs the Vault. Rest at the Inn east from the entrance of the Village. Speak to the man southeast of the Inn to make him pee on his foot. >_> Speak to the young lady north of the Item Shop to find out the Prince of Laurasia set out to conquer Hargon just like Hero. Wait...that is Hero! Hero the Prince of Laurasia but the lady won't believe us if you answer YES to her question. Speak to the Old Man west of her to find out Sumaltria Castle can be found north of Liriza. Go into the Weapon Shop north of the Item Shop. There's a locked door here. Speak to the Soldier and he'll ask us if we've heard the news that Moonbrook Castle was attacked by Hargon. Answer with a YES. The Merchant runs the Weapon Shop. Buy a Sacred Knife for Hero. Sell your old Copper Sword. Go up the stairs in the Weapon Shop. Speak to the lady to find out her younger brother is a Soldier at Moonbrook Castle. He suddenly arrived here and left his son in her care. She hasn't heard of him since then. He's probably dead. Search her drawers to find a LOTTERY TICKET. Exit the Weapon Shop. Speak to the young man north of the Inn to find out how the new Status Effect, Poisoned, works. That's why we have a new item Antidote Herb to counter it. The Church can be found north of the Inn. Speak to the Little boy west of the Church to find out there's a Monolith west of here. There's a Traveler's Gate inside that teleports the person that stand on it to Moonbrook Castle. Speak to the little girl with him to find out they are on a date. Go into the Church and speak to the Priest: DETOXICATE EXORCISE REVIVE DETOXICATE - Cures a Character that is poisoned. EXORCISE - Remove Curse from a Character. REVIVE - Revives a dead Character. That's all for Liriza. Store your Lottery Tickets in the Vault. It eats up space.

**Overworld**

| (Liriza Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Iron Ant (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Specter (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 6) |  |

| (Sumaltria Castle Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Iron Ant (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Specter (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Wild Rat (EXP - 5) (GOLD - 5) |  |

From Liriza, travel north until you find a Castle. That is Sumaltria Castle. Train to Level 7 then go into it.
