<a id="s3-30"></a>

## 3.30. Lighthouse

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: 500-505 Gold |  |
| --- | --- |
| Chain Whip |  |
| 725-735 Gold |  |
| Nut of Life |  |
| Star Crest |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Dragon Fly (EXP - 59) (GOLD - 43) |  |
| - Laliho Ant (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 8) |  |
| - Gremlin (EXP - 47) (GOLD - 52) |  |
| - Gorgon Head (EXP - 62) (GOLD - 50) |  |
| - Mummy Man (EXP - 44) (GOLD - 40) |  |
| - Prayer (EXP - 37) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Saber Wolf (EXP - 45) (GOLD - 55) |  |
| - Death God (EXP - 50) (GOLD - 44) |  |
| - Undead Man (EXP - 45) (GOLD - 82) |  |
| - Gold Orc (EXP - 83) (GOLD - 255) |  |

Entrance

Speak to the Soldier here and he'll ask us if we've come here in search the Crest. Answer with a YES and he'll kind of tell you where you can check the Crests you've obtained. You can check it from your Status. I've already told you that. Go up the stairs north and go into the Lighthouse.

1F

From the entrance of this floor, go east to the end then go north to the end. Go west then north and go through the broken wall. Go west then go through the broken wall south. Now, go west to the end. Go south to the end. Go east then north through the broken wall. Go east then north to find an opening into the purple roofed room west. Go through it. There's a staircase going down here. Ignore it. Go through the north opening. Open the chest to find 500-505 GOLD. Go back south 1 screen to the room with the staircase. Go south 1 screen and go up the staircase here.

2F

Go up the stairs south.

3F

Go up the stairs east.

4F

Go up the stairs northeast.

5F

Open the chest to find a CHAIN WHIP. Go back down the stairs.

4F

Go back down the stairs.

3F

Go back down the stairs.

2F

Go back down the stairs.

1F

Go west 1 screen and go up the stairs.

2F

Go west, south, east then go up the stairs.

3F

Go west to find a staircase going up. Ignore it. Go east and go through the opening north. Go north and unlock the Silver Door. Go up the stairs north. Go up the series of stairs until you get to 8F.

8F

Go south to find a Knight. Speak to him to find out he has been watching the Temple of Hargon from here for a while now. Towering to the sky, in the center of the continent, is the great land of Rhone. However, ordinary people won't be able to travel there...He remembers circling the world by ship a long time ago seeking clues on how to enter Rhone. He gave up. Return to the 3F by going down the series of stairs.

3F

Go up the stairs I told you to ignore.

4F

Go through the opening south. There's a chest and a staircase going up here. Open the chest to find 725-735 GOLD. Go up the stairs west of the chest.

5F

Go through the opening southeast. Go up the stairs east.

6F

Go down the stairs north.

5F

Open the chest west to find a NUT OF LIFE. Go back up the stairs you came from.

6F

Go back down the stairs south.

5F

Go back through the opening west. Go back the down the stairs northwest.

4F

Go through the opening north. Go east the north to find a staircase going up east. Ignore it. Go west to find another staircase going up. Go up it.

5F

Go up the stairs east.

6F

Unlock the Silver Door then go through the opening southwest. Go north then west and go up the stairs.

7F

Go east to find a monster. It will fly through the opening south. Follow him through the opening he went through. There's an Old Man here. Speak to him. He wants us to follow him. What about the monster that came through? Anyway, the Old Man will guide us to the Crest. He sounds suspicious. Follow him through the opening west. Go down the southwest stairs.

6F

Follow the Old Man east and go down the stairs.

5F

Follow the Old Man north and go down the stairs.

4F

Follow the Old Man southwest and go down the stairs.

3F

Follow the Old Man east then north and go down the stairs.

2F

Speak to the Old Man. He wants us to open the chest. Do so. It's empty! It's a trap! Four Gremlins. Easy enough. Just cast Firebane and watch them burn. >=) You'll receive the STAR CREST after defeating the Gremlins. Cast Outside or fall down the edge of the Tower.

**Overworld**

| (Beranule Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Smoke (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 40) |  |
| - Mud Hand (EXP - 28) (GOLD - 42) |  |
| - Orc (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 50) |  |
| - Rotting Corpse (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 51) |  |
| - Basilisk (EXP - 41) (GOLD - 58) |  |
| - Beast (EXP - 50) (GOLD - 80) |  |
| - Dragon Fly (EXP - 59) (GOLD - 43) |  |

We now have the Star Crest and Water Crest. Time to get to our next destination. Get aboard your Ship. From the Lighthouse Island, sail west then north to reach Lupegana. Rest there and SAVE YOUR GAME there. From Lupegana travel NORTH until you reach a small island that is filled with trees but nothing else. Go north from that island to reach a continent. Dock at the south side of it (where the trees are) then travel north to find a Town. Get your party Level to: Hero (21) Rolando (19) Linda (15) At Level 15, Linda will learn HEALALL In case my direction is not clear:

World Map: Sail to the southern side of the Southwest Corner Continent and dock there then travel north to find a Town.
