<a id="s3-31"></a>

## 3.31. Beranule

<!-- MIXED -->

| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Wizard's Staff      2500 | Medical Herb     10 | 30G to Rest |  |
| Giant Hammer        4000 | Antidote Herb     8 | ------------- |  |
| Dragon Killer       8000 | Holy Water       40 | -VAULT- |  |
| Steel Shield        2000 | Wing of the | (Available) |  |
| Power Shield       21500 | Chimera          25 | ------------- |  |
| Iron Helmet         3150 |  | -CHURCH- |  |
|  |  | (Available) |  |

Huge town filled with water! Go across the bridge west and speak to the Priest. He'll say the look of death appears in our faces. Huh? He also says there's an evil power growing in us. Speak to the Merchant to find out we're in Beranule, the city of water. Go north from the entrance of the Town to find a Soldier guarding a prisoner. Speak to the Soldier and he'll say it's dangerous to approach a prisoner. Unlock the prison door then cast Stepguard. Speak to the prisoner to find out no one has ever visited him before. He wants us to journey through the Traveler's Gate in this town. The Traveler's Gate in this town is the only way to reach Rhone. He wants us to search for the Monolith's exit if we believe what he says. Go south from the entrance of the Town to find the Weapon Shop. Speak to the Knight to find out he's searching for the Lightning Sword. We can use it to cast Lightning if we use the Sword as an item in battle just like the Staff of Thunder. The Old Man west of the Knight will tell you about the Leaf of the World Tree. I already told you what it does. I hope you still have the one I told you to save. We'll use it soon. At the Weapon Shop, the Man runs the Weapon Shop, the young lady runs the Item Shop and the Lady runs the Vault. The young man says a town named Dercondal is located at the southern sea far south of Laurasia Castle. The opening west of him leads to the Lottery. At the Weapon Shop, buy the Power Shield for Rolando. The Inn is found west of the Weapon Shop. DO NOT REST AT THE INN YET. Speak to the young lady to find out we need the Magic Loom (Sacred Loom) and the Dew's Yarn to weave the Angel's Robe of Water. Speak to the Soldier inside the Inn to find out he's from Laurasia Castle. He has a message for us. He'll tell us that the Sun Crest is located in the Fire Monolith. Go north of the Inn and speak to the Priest. He wishes that one day Hargon will be punished. Speak to the Knight to find out the Moon Crest is with the King of Dercondal. Go into either opening north of the Knight. This is the Church. Exit the Church. Go across the bridges west of the Church. Go north to find a young lady and an Old Man. The young lady will tell you where to find the World Tree Island. We already know where it is. It's west of Zahan or Southeast of Perpoy. Speak to the Old Man and MAKE SURE YOU SAVE YOUR GAME here and don't save anywhere else. We'll RETURN here later.

Return to the Inn. Speak to the Innkeeper.

**NOTE:** There's a bug at the Inn. The cost to rest at the

Inn is 90G in total but the game has a bug showing a higher price or 0G. Don't worry about it. It still costs 90G to rest so don't worry about it. In the morning, the Innkeeper will inform you that one of our party member is ill. Rolando is ill. He's on the bed. Speak to him.

**NOTE:** Another bug. Rolando is the one speaking, but it shows

that Linda is the one speaking. Minor bug. Anyway, Rolando will say Hargon must have cursed him. How did that happen? Rolando wants us to leave him but we won't. Now is the time for the Leaf of the World Tree. Stand near Rolando and use it as an item to cure him.

**Alternative:** You can leave Rolando at the Inn and continue the

game with only Hero and Linda but where's the fun in that. After you cure Rolando, he'll join the party again.

**IMPORTANT FREAKING NOTE:** In case your game freezing or the game

doesn't run after you cure Rolando, just reset your game and reload your SAVE STATE. I told you to SAVE YOUR GAME in this town before using the Inn. If your game glitches when you cure Rolando then DON'T EVER REST AT THIS TOWN'S INN.

That's everything for this town. Alright! We have 2 leads. The Sun Crest is in the Fire Monolith and the Moon Crest is with the King of Dercondal. Let's go get the Sun Crest first since it's the easier one to get then we'll go get the Moon Crest from the King of Dercondal. Exit the Town.

**Overworld**

| (Monolith North of Beranule Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Smoke (EXP - 18) (GOLD - 40) |  |
| - Mud Hand (EXP - 28) (GOLD - 42) |  |
| - Orc (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 50) |  |
| - Rotting Corpse (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 51) |  |
| - Basilisk (EXP - 41) (GOLD - 58) |  |
| - Beast (EXP - 50) (GOLD - 80) |  |
| - Dragon Fly (EXP - 59) (GOLD - 43) |  |

From Beranule, on foot, travel northeast to find a bridge. Go across it. Go north and go across the bridge. Travel west then northwest to find a Monolith. Go into it.
