<a id="s3-34"></a>

## 3.34. Dercondal

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Armor of Gaia |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Sacred Knife |  |  |  |
| Moon Crest |  |  |  |
| Strength Seed |  |  |  |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| Steel Sword         1500 | None | 25G to Rest |  |
| Giant Hammer        4000 |  | ------------- |  |
| Dragon Killer       8000 |  | -VAULT- |  |
| Evasion Clothes     1250 |  | (Available) |  |
| Magic Armor         4300 |  | ------------- |  |
| Iron Helmet         3150 |  | -CHURCH- |  |
|  |  | (Available) |  |

Yep. We're in Dercondal. We made it. From the Traveler's Gate, go 2 paces south then 2 places east. Unlock the Hidden Gold Door then go through the dark opening. Speak to the Merchant to find out if we want to buy stuff, we need to speak to him across the counter. Search the 2 chests here to find the ARMOR OF GAIA and a SACRED KNIFE. Equip the Armor of Gaia on Hero. Return to the Traveler's Gate. From the gate, go north, east then south and speak to the man to find out he thinks we're here to participate in the fights. Speak to the Soldier to find out the King is the one who hosts the fights. Just the other day, a Saber Tiger and a traveling Soldier were forced to fight. The Soldier was severely wounded. Go through the opening west of the Soldier. There's a Saber Tiger (caged of course), a King and some Bunny Ladies. Speak to the Bunny Ladies to find out we are currently in the Hero's Stadium where the battles take place. Well, since we're fearless....unlock the Prison Door and speak to the Saber Tiger. It's harmless....for now...... Speak to the King and agree to participate in the fights. Step in the middle of the Arena and let's begin the battle. A Killer Tiger. Easy enough. Burn it with Firebane and attack! After the battle, speak to the King and you'll get the MOON CREST. Phew. He will now allow us to save our game but DO NOT save your game here. Go south of the Arena to find the Weapon Shop, Inn and Church. Speak to the Merchant to find out about the sunken treasure which we've already traded in for the Echoing Flute. Speak to the young man to find out how to be successful in our journey. Speak to the Priest in the Church to find out what the Echoing Flute does. The man in the Weapon Shop is searching for the Armor of Gaia. We already have it. The lady runs the Vault. At the Weapon Shop, buy the Magic Armor for Rolando. The Old Man behind the counter north of the Inn is a fortuneteller. Answer his question with a YES and he'll tell us our fortune. He's a fake. He keeps changing the direction you need to go if you tell him to tell you your fortune again. Go north of the Fortune Teller to find a Jail. Free the Soldier then speak to him. He'll thank us for letting him out. Go into his cell and search the the top right corner to find a STRENGTH SEED. That's everything to do here in Dercondal. Exit Dercondal.

**Overworld**

| (Dercondal Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Hawk Man (EXP - 64) (GOLD - 45) |  |
| - Udrah (EXP - 67) (GOLD - 95) |  |
| - Gust (EXP - 62) (GOLD - 39) |  |
| - Rotting Corpse (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 51) |  |
| - Sorcerer (EXP - 72) (GOLD - 110) |  |
| - Metal Slime (EXP - 1015) (GOLD - 90) |  |

The continent we are on is the Eastern Continent of the World Map. The last place I told you to Save Your Game was at Beranule so cast RETURN so we can get there.

**Overworld**

| (Tepa Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Taho Drakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Mandrill (EXP - 33) (GOLD - 45) |  |
| - Centipede (EXP - 33) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Goblin Rat (EXP - 23) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Living Dead (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Sorcerer (EXP - 72) (GOLD - 110) |  |
| - Rotting Corpse (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 51) |  |
| - Metal Slime (EXP - 1015) (GOLD - 90) |  |
| - Head Hunter (EXP - 77) (GOLD - 97) |  |
| - Gold Orc (EXP - 83) (GOLD - 255) |  |
| - Hibabango (EXP - 81) (GOLD - 83) |  |
| - Blood Hand (EXP - 48) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Puppet Man (EXP - 52) (GOLD - 100) |  |
| - Metal Babble (EXP - 10150) (GOLD - 255) |  |

Get aboard your Ship south of Beranule. Time to journey to Tepa. From where your Ship is parked, sail north to the northern part of the Continent Beranule is on. The northern part is where you can find the Monolith North of Beranule. Sail east of the Monolith North of Beranule to find a narrow river leading into the continent east. Follow that narrow river until you reach a fork going north/east. The river path east is blocked by a bridge so take the norths river path. There's 2 end of the river. Dock at the northwest end. Travel west on foot to find a poisonous swamp. From the poisonous swamp, travel north, east, south then east to find a small body of water. From there, go east, south then west to find a Town. Get your party level to: Hero (23) Rolando (21) Linda (17) At Level 17, Linda will learn OUTSIDE. Go into the Town.
