<a id="s3-35"></a>

## 3.35. Tepa

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Angel's Robe of Water |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| Wizard's Staff      2500 | Holy Water       40 | 40G to Rest |  |
| Dragon Killer       8000 | Wing of the | ------------- |  |
| Falcon Sword       25000 | Chimera          25 | -VAULT- |  |
| Magic Armor         4300 | Bell Amulet     640 | (Unavailable) |  |
| Power Shield       21500 |  | ------------- |  |
| Iron Helmet         3150 |  | -CHURCH- |  |
|  |  | (Available) |  |

Speak to the Old Man to find out we are in Tepa. The Soldier west of him is a Traveling Soldier. He reminds us that Don Mahone, the maker of the Angel's Robe of Water lives in this town. The Church can we found south of the Traveling Soldier. Go across the bridge west of the Church. Speak to the Merchant to find out we can find the Moon Fragment in the Moon Tower. Nothing to buy at the Weapon Shop unless you want to use the Falcon Sword. It's great for Metal Slime/Metal Babble hunting since you can attack twice per turn. Go north of the Weapon Shop. Speak to the Young Man and he'll thank us for getting back the Watergate Key. This old thing? Speak to the young lady inside the building to find out the Moon Tower can be found south of this village. Go east to find a bridge. Don't go across it yet. Speak to the young lady to find out her name is Gina. She's wondering what her good-for-nothing husband is doing right now. You also get to find out that there's a Watergate somewhere in town. Unlock the Gold Door and go into the building. Go down the stairs. Speak to the Old Man to find out he is Don Mahone. Sounds like a mafia name. We have all the tools needed for him to weave the Angel's Robe of Water. He wants us to come tomorrow. Exit this building. Go across the bridge to find the Inn. The Soldier inside the Inn will say if he was faster, Lagos wouldn't have escaped. Who's Lagos? The Merchant runs the Inn. The young man runs the Item Shop. Speak to the Old Man south of the Item Shop to find out we need to open up the Watergate to restore water to the dried up river bed. Speak to the young lady near him to find out what her grandfather recently did. Go north of the Item Shop to find Gina's husband. He wants us to keep his location a secret. Answer with a NO to be called a cold bastard. Go west of Gina's husband to find the Watergate. Unlock the Prison Door then go down the stairs. Stand in front of the Keyhole and use the Watergate Key as an item. The water will flow to the dried up river bed. In order to get the Angel's Robe of Water, you need to SAVE YOUR GAME and choose not to continue your adventure. Reset the game and come back to Tepa. Speak to Don Mahone to get the ANGEL'S ROBE OF WATER. Equip it on Linda like Don Mahone says. Next is to explore the Moon Tower. RETURN to Beranule.

**Overworld**

| (Moon Tower Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Taho Drakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Mandrill (EXP - 33) (GOLD - 45) |  |
| - Centipede (EXP - 33) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Goblin Rat (EXP - 23) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Living Dead (EXP - 40) (GOLD - 25) |  |
| - Sorcerer (EXP - 72) (GOLD - 110) |  |
| - Rotting Corpse (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 51) |  |
| - Metal Slime (EXP - 1015) (GOLD - 90) |  |
| - Head Hunter (EXP - 77) (GOLD - 97) |  |
| - Gold Orc (EXP - 83) (GOLD - 255) |  |
| - Hibabango (EXP - 81) (GOLD - 83) |  |
| - Blood Hand (EXP - 48) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Puppet Man (EXP - 52) (GOLD - 100) |  |
| - Metal Babble (EXP - 10150) (GOLD - 255) |  |

Sail east from the Monolith North of Beranule to reach the narrow river path that we took to reach Tepa. Ignore it. Sail southeast then east to find another narrow river path leading into the continent. Follow it until you reach the first fork going north/west. The west river path is blocked by a bridge so take the north river path. At the next fork, sail east to see Tepa. Sail south from there to find the Moon Tower. Go into the Moon Tower.
