<a id="s3-36"></a>

## 3.36. Moon Tower

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Strength Seed |  |
| --- | --- |
| Magic Nut |  |
| 1195-1210 Gold |  |
| Defense Seed x2 |  |
| 270-280 Gold |  |
| Prayer Ring |  |
| Moon Fragment |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Vampirus (EXP - 95) (GOLD - 49) |  |
| - Gold Orc (EXP - 83) (GOLD - 255) |  |
| - Taho Drakee (EXP - 12) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Head Hunter (EXP - 77) (GOLD - 97) |  |
| - Gargoyle (EXP - 95) (GOLD - 107) |  |
| - Puppet Man (EXP - 52) (GOLD - 100) |  |
| - Blood Hand (EXP - 48) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Mummy (EXP - 62) (GOLD - 60) |  |
| - Devil's Eyeball (EXP - 92) (GOLD - 88) |  |
| - Hell's Messenger (EXP - 132) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Ghoul (EXP - 83) (GOLD - 255) |  |
| - Metal Babble (EXP - 10150) (GOLD - 255) |  |

1F

Go west to find a staircase going up and an chest. Open the chest to find a STRENGTH SEED. Go up the stairs near the chest.

2F

Go south to find a 2 staircases going up to your right. Ignore them. Go north to find a chest. Open it to find a MAGIC NUT. Go back south to the staircases I told you to ignore. Go up the western one.

3F

Open the chest here to find 1195-1210 GOLD. Go back down the stairs.

2F

Ignore the eastern staircase for now.

<!-- MIXED -->

Go east to the end then go south to find a staircase going down. Go down it.

1F

Open the chest here to find a DEFENSE SEED. Go back up the stairs.

2F

Go up the eastern staircase now.

3F

Go up the stairs north.

4F

Go south to find 2 chests. Open them to find 270-280 GOLD and a DEFENSE SEED. Go back north then go up the stairs east.

5F

First of all, unlock the 2 Silver Doors. Take the staircase going up.

6F

Go up the stairs west.

7F

Open the chest to find a PRAYER RING! That's our 3rd one. I hope you're saving them. Go back down the stairs.

6F

Go back down the stairs

5F

Take the staircase going down this time. (southern one)

4F

Go down the stairs.

3F

Go down the stairs north.

2F

Go down the stairs.

1F

The Old Man here wants us to open the chest. Do so to find the MOON FRAGMENT. That's all for this tower. Get your party Level to: Hero (25) Rolando (23) Linda (19) At Level 23, Rolando will learn DEFEAT. At Level 19, Linda will learn EXPLODET You can go Metal Babble hunting on Floor 5.

**Overworld**

Get on your Ship and sail to the Open Ocean then open up your World Map. Can you see the Small Dark Dot southwest of the continent Dercondal is on? Remember I told you Dercondal is the Small Eastern Continent. It's a round shape. Our destination is the Small Dark Dot southwest of Dercondal Continent. Before heading there, stop at Perpoy and buy the Light Sword for Rolando. The Sword of Roto is now useless. I guess it became outdated over the years. Anyway, make your way to the Small Dark Dot southwest of Dercondal Continent. When you get there, all you'll see is a Cave surrounded by corals (spiky rocks). Sail near the spiky rocks then use the Moon Fragment as an item. We can now access the Cave. Go into it.
