<a id="s3-37"></a>

## 3.37. Undersea Cave

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: 1200-1210 Gold |  |
| --- | --- |
| Magic Nut |  |
| Prayer Ring |  |
| Strength Seed |  |
| Magic Armor |  |
| Statue of Evil |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Udrah (EXP - 67) (GOLD - 95) |  |
| - Dragon Fly (EXP - 59) (GOLD - 43) |  |
| - Gust (EXP - 62) (GOLD - 39) |  |
| - Mummy (EXP - 62) (GOLD - 60) |  |
| - Gold Orc (EXP - 83) (GOLD - 255) |  |
| - Puppet Man (EXP - 52) (GOLD - 100) |  |
| - Hell's Messenger (EXP - 132) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Blood Hand (EXP - 48) (GOLD - 30) |  |
| - Devil's Eyeball (EXP - 92) (GOLD - 88) |  |
| - Killer Tiger (EXP - 128) (GOLD - 55) |  |
| - Skull Knight (EXP - 115) (GOLD - 80) |  |
| - Metal Hunter (EXP - 125) (GOLD - 150) |  |

B1F

Arghhh!!!! Fire!!! Cast Stepguard. From the entrance of this floor, go west, north then east to find a chest containing 1200-1210 GOLD. Return to the entrance of this floor. This time, go south then go west to the end. Go north to find a chest containing a MAGIC NUT. Go back south then go south and through the opening. Go down the stairs.

B2F

Go through the opening south and open the chest to find out it's a trap. Hero will get poisoned. Cast Antidote on him. Go back through the opening. Go west to staircase going down and a Soldier. Speak to the Soldier to find out that long ago a volcano at the bottom of the sea erupted, and formed this cave. At times, it is almost too hot to endure. Go down the stairs near the Soldier.

B3F

Go south to find 2 staircases going up. Go up the west one.

B2F

Open the chest to find a PRAYER RING. Go through the opening south. Go west and speak to the Soldier and he'll ask you if you've located the Temple of Fire. Answer with a NO to find out there is somewhere in this cave that is dedicated to the worship of evil gods. There might be a clue there that might get us to Hargon's Temple. From the Soldier, go north to find a staircase going up west. Ignore it. Continue on north to find a Flame Path. Follow it north then west and go down the stairs.

B3F

Unlock the Silver Door first them open the chests to find out one of them is a trap (poison) while the other contains a STRENGTH SEED. Ignore the staircases going down. Go through the opening south of the chest that contained the Strength Seed. Go south to the end then go east to find a staircase going down. Ignore it. Go north to find lots staircases!!!!! Open. The chest at the northwest corner to find a MAGIC ARMOR. Go down the staircase southeast of the chest:

B4F

Go west to the end then go north to find a staircase. Go down it.

B5F

Heal up. Go south then east to find a monster. Approach the monster and it will call us insolent fools. Another monster will arrive and then they'll attack us. 2 Hell's Messengers. Easy enough. Cast Explodet! After they fade away, go north and get the STATUE OF EVIL from the altar. Get your Party Level to: Hero (27) Rolando (26) Linda (21) At Level 25, Rolando will learn REVIVE. Cast OUTSIDE then cast RETURN to get back to Beranule.

**Beranule**

Go into the Church which is north of the Inn. Unlock the Hidden Prison Door behind the Priest and go through it. Cast Stepguard then step on the Traveler's Gate north.
