<a id="s3-39"></a>

## 3.39. Rhone Cave First Visit

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Life Crest |  |
| --- | --- |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Rotting Corpse (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 51) |  |
| - Killer Tiger (EXP - 128) (GOLD - 55) |  |
| - Hell's Messenger (EXP - 132) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Skull Knight (EXP - 115) (GOLD - 80) |  |
| - Metal Hunter (EXP - 125) (GOLD - 150) |  |
| - Metal Babble (EXP - 10150) (GOLD - 255) |  |
| - Dark Eye (EXP - 118) (GOLD - 81) |  |

B1F

Freaky cave.....let's just get the Life Crest and leave. Go north and go down the staircase you see first.

B2F

Examine the Broken Gravestone and a Merchant will appear! What!? What is he doing here. He's here so Hargon won't discover him. He couldn't stand the atrocities of the evil gods so he ran to this secluded place. He'll tell us that we're near Hargon's Temple before going to hide in the Gravestone left of the Broken Gravestone. Examine the Middle Gravestone and he'll appear again and tell you the same thing but this time, he'll go and hide in the Left Gravestone. Examine the Left Gravestone so he'll appear again. After he says the same thing, he'll go back to hide at the Broken Gravestone. Hmm.... whatever. Go to the southeast corner and open the chest to find the LIFE CREST. What a strange place for it to be. This place is lifeless after all of you get my gist. Get your party Level to: Hero (29) Rolando (28) Linda (23) At Level 28, Rolando will learn his last spell, SACRIFICE At Level 22, Linda will learn REVIVE Cast Outside. We got what we came for. The Life Crest of course. Cast RETURN when you get to the Overworld.

**Overworld**

We have the 5 Crests. Let's go get Rubiss protection. Open up your World Map. Do you see that very tiny dot northwest of Dercondal Continent? That's our next destination. Sail there, Dock and go into the Monolith.
