<a id="s3-4"></a>

## 3.4. Sumaltria Castle

<!-- MIXED -->

| -WEAPON SHOP- | -ITEM SHOP- | -INN- |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Club                  60 | Medical Herb     10 | 8G to Rest |  |
| Copper Sword         100 | Antidote Herb     8 | ------------- |  |
| Sacred Knife         200 | Holy Water       40 | -VAULT- |  |
| Chain Whip           330 | Wing of the | (Unavailable) |  |
| Chain Mail           390 | Chimera          25 | ------------- |  |
| Leather Shield        90 |  | -CHURCH- |  |
|  |  | (Available) |  |

Go north and speak to the Soldier and he'll welcome you to Sumaltria. Speak to the young lady to find out the other day, the southern sky could be seen burning bright red. The Merchant behind the counter west runs the Item Shop Go north of Item Shop to find the Inn. The Old Man inside the Inn says the Prince of Sumaltria can use magic but he lacks physical strength to equip heavy Weapons and Armors. Speak to the merchant east of the Inn to find out he's a traveling merchant. He runs the Weapon Shop. Buy the Chain Whip and Chain Mail for Hero. Sell your old equipments. Go east of the Item Shop to find prisoners behind bars. Speak to the Soldier to find out we can speak to them through the prison doors. Speak to the top prisoner to find out if we have the Silver Key, we can open all silver-edged Doors. Speak to the bottom prisoner to find out even though the world is about to end, we shouldn't steal.....take your own advice. Go into the Church area northeast of the Prisons. Speak to the Nun to find out Hargon threw the world into darkness but the descendants of Roto will stop him. Speak to the Priest. He runs the Church. Take the west path north of the Prison. The Gold Door is locked. Go north and speak to the Soldier to find out the opening east of him leads to the chamber of Prince Rolando's younger sister. Go through the opening east. Speak to the Princess and she'll ask you if you're a friend of the Prince. Answer with a YES to find out the Prince doesn't like traveling long journies. Exit the Princess Chamber and head west to find the King. Speak to the Soldier to find out news of our journey has already reached this country. Speak to the other Soldier to find out there's a Cave called Spring of Bravery far to the north of Laurasia Castle. Go up the stairs and speak to the Soldier to find out the Prince is a nice guy. The Gold Door here is locked. Go back down the stairs. Speak to the King. The King will say his son ought to have traveled to the Spring of Bravery. He wants us to find his son and make him our ally. SAVE YOUR GAME. Exit the Castle.

**Overworld**

| (Sumaltria Castle Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Iron Ant (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Specter (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Wild Rat (EXP - 5) (GOLD - 5) |  |

| (Spring of Bravery Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Wild Rat (EXP - 5) (GOLD - 5) |  |
| - Babble (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Hoimi Slime (EXP - 15) (GOLD - 5) |  |
| - Magician (EXP - 10) (GOLD - 10) |  |

From Sumaltria Castle, travel northeast then east to find a desert area. From there, travel east to find a bridge. Go across it. From the bridge, travel northeast to find a Cave. Go into it.
