<a id="s3-42"></a>

## 3.42. Rhone Cave Second Visit

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Lottery Ticket |  |
| --- | --- |
| Armor of Roto |  |
| Mystery Cap |  |
| 1475-1495 Gold |  |
| Hade's Shield |  |
| 565-575 Gold |  |
| Lightning Sword |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Rotting Corpse (EXP - 61) (GOLD - 51) |  |
| - Killer Tiger (EXP - 128) (GOLD - 55) |  |
| - Hell's Messenger (EXP - 132) (GOLD - 10) |  |
| - Skull Knight (EXP - 115) (GOLD - 80) |  |
| - Metal Hunter (EXP - 125) (GOLD - 150) |  |
| - Metal Babble (EXP - 10150) (GOLD - 255) |  |
| - Gargoyle (EXP - 95) (GOLD - 107) |  |
| - Hoimi Slime (EXP - 15) (GOLD - 5) |  |
| - Dark Eye (EXP - 118) (GOLD - 81) |  |
| - Vebir (EXP - 159) (GOLD - 121) |  |
| - Orc King (EXP - 181) (GOLD - 204) |  |
| - Berserker (EXP - 147) (GOLD - 123) |  |
| - Killer Machine (EXP - 554) (GOLD - 120) |  |
| - Magic Vampirus (EXP - 182) (GOLD - 103) |  |
| - Dragon (EXP - 480) (GOLD - 146) |  |
| - Hargon Knight (EXP - 201) (GOLD - 135) |  |
| - Flame (EXP - 315) (GOLD - 101) |  |
| - Silver Devil (EXP - 321) (GOLD - 96) |  |

B1F

Make your way to the Southeast corner of this floor and go up the stairs.

1F

Go west 1 screen. Go west. Ignore the first and second path going north. Take the third path going north. Go up the stairs here.

2F

Remember this entrance of 2F. We'll come back here later. Go southeast. Continue on south, southeast then go east. Go north and open the chest to find a useless LOTTERY TICKET. From the chest, go south then east to find a staircase going up. Go up it.

3F

Go up the stairs.

4F

Open the chest east to find the ARMOR OF ROTO. Equip it on Hero. Backtrack to the entrance of 2F I told you to remember.

2F

From the entrance, go through the opening west. Go up the stairs west.

3F

Go up the stairs.

4F

Open the chest east to find a MYSTERY CAP. Equip it on Linda. Backtrack to the entrance of 2F I told you to remember.

2F

Go northwest then east and open the chest to find 1475-1495 GOLD. From the chest, go northwest then north to reach a fork (west/east). Remember this fork. We'll come back later. Go west at the fork and go up the stairs at the end of the passage.

3F

Go up the stairs.

4F

Go south to the end then go through the opening west. Go west and open the 2 chests to find HADE'S SHIELD and 565-575 GOLD. If you equip Hade's Shield, you will be cursed~ Return to the fork on 2F I told you to remember.

2F

Go east this time. Go up the stairs east.

3F

Go up the stairs.

4F

From the entrance, walk 4 paces south, 2 paces west and then

**go south to fall down a hole:** D

3F

On this floor, go to the southwest corner. From there, go

**paces north to fall down a Hole:** D

2F

Examine the Sword nearby to find the LIGHTNING SWORD. Equip it on Hero. Go to the southeast corner of this floor then go north to fall down a hole. :D

1F

Go through the opening north. Walk around until you fall down a nice hole. :D

B1F

We made it back to the original entrance of Rhone Cave.

Pit Stop

You can exit and return to a Town to heal up. SAVE YOUR GAME as well. Get your party level to: Hero (32) Rolando (31) Linda (25) At Level 25, Linda will learn CHANCE.

B1F

Go up the stairs at the southeast corner of the room.

1F

Go west 1 screen. Go west. Ignore the first and second path going north. Take the third path going north. Go up the stairs here.

2F

From the entrance of this floor, go northwest then go north to the end. At the fork, go east and go up the stairs.

3F

Go up the stairs.

4F

From the entrance of this floor, go 4 paces south, 4 paces west then go directly south to the end. Go east and then go up the stairs.

5F

Follow my directions carefully. Go east 1 screen. Follow the path to a fork. Go west 1 screen. Follow the path to a fork. Go east 1 screen. This is a rather large room but nothing to fear. Go east 1 screen. Take the northern path east 1 screen. Go north 1 screen. Go north to a fork. Take the western path north. Go north 1 screen. Go north to reach a fork. Go east 1 screen. Go east 1 screen. Go up the stairs east.

**Overworld**

| (Rhone Monolith Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Killer Machine (EXP - 554) (GOLD - 120) |  |
| - Silver Devil (EXP - 321) (GOLD - 96) |  |
| - Cyclops (EXP - 257) (GOLD - 99) |  |
| - Devil Lord (EXP - 542) (GOLD - 100) |  |
| - Blizzard (EXP - 412) (GOLD - 113) |  |
| - Arch Demon (EXP - 1475) (GOLD - 235) |  |
| - Gigantes (EXP - 580) (GOLD - 165) |  |

Hey! It's Snow!!!! Travel northeast to find some bridges. Go across them then go into the Monolith.
