<a id="s3-44"></a>

## 3.44. Hargon's Temple

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Demon's Tail |  |
| --- | --- |
| Devil's Armor |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Dragon (EXP - 480) (GOLD - 146) |  |
| - Devil Lord (EXP - 542) (GOLD - 100) |  |
| - Killer Machine (EXP - 554) (GOLD - 120) |  |
| - Flame (EXP - 315) (GOLD - 101) |  |
| - Arch Demon (EXP - 1475) (GOLD - 235) |  |
| - Demon Priest (EXP - 734) (GOLD - 170) |  |
| - Metal Babble (EXP - 10150) (GOLD - 255) |  |
| - Gigantes (EXP - 580) (GOLD - 165) |  |
| - Berserker (EXP - 147) (GOLD - 123) |  |

Illusion

Huh? Laurasia Castle? What's going on. Is this the Illusion we were warned about. Rest at the Inn if you want. It has no effect once we've through the Illusion. Speak to the Soldier and he'll recognize Hero. Speak to the young man. He'll say Hargon is a good person. The young lady will say Hargon is beautiful. That's not what the grandson of King Dragon said. The Merchant south of the Traveler's Gate will say it was just a mere fire that destroyed Moonbrook not Hargon's army. That's a lie. We saw it happen. The Old Man will say there's no need to leave the Castle. The Traveler's Gate doesn't work. The Nun thinks Hargon is a savior from heaven. The Merchant east of the Nun will tell us about the Dragon's Bane. The Priest wants us to worship Hargon. Go into the East Room to find a Soldier and a young lady. They are on a date. Go into the Treasury. The Treasure Chests here are all empty. Go to the Prison Area. There's a guard here on the floor. He like Hargon. Hmmm...the whole Castle loves Hargon. What the heck is going on. Go up the stairs to the Throne Room. The Soldier here will tell us that if we want to meet Hargon, we should speak to the King. The Bunny Lady that isn't near the King is Mariella. The King replaced the Minister with her. The other 2 Bunny Ladies are serving the King. Speak to the King. The King is now an ally of Hargon. Hmmm.... something's obviously not right. Use the Charm of Rubiss as an item. Rubiss will tell us that what we see is an illusion. She will free us from the illusion.

1F

Huh? We're in the real Hargon's Temple now. There are some spirits wandering around. One of them might attack you if you speak to it. 2 Devil Lords. From the entrance of this floor, go north to the Throne. Cast Stepguard then go behind the Throne. Go to the west end of the Icy Damage Tiles behind the Throne then go 2 paces east. Look north then unlock the Hidden Door. Go through it. There's an opening nearby. Ignore it for now but remember it. Go east then north and go through the opening east. Open the chest to find the DEVIL'S ARMOR. Return to the opening I told you to ignore. Ignore it. Go west then north and go through the opening west. Open the chest here to find the DEMON'S TAIL. Both items are cursed. Return to the opening I told you to ignore. Unlock the Hidden Gold Door then go through the opening. Step on the middle of the Cross Symbol then use the Statue of Evil as an item.

2F

Go up the stairs northeast.

3F

Get your party Level to: Hero (37) Rolando (34) Linda (29) At Level 29, Linda will learn her last spell, OPEN.....err.... Metal Babbles spawn on this floor. Happy farming. Make your way to the northwest corner of this floor and go up the stairs.

4F

Follow the passage to reach the stairs going up. Before you go up them, you have to defeat a boss.

| NAME: Atlas |  |
| --- | --- |
| EXPERIENCE: 2500 |  |
| GOLD: 250 |  |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: Hero: 37 |  |
| Rolando: 34 |  |
| Linda: 29 |  |
| ATTACKS: |  |
| - Normal Attack |  |
| - Attacks Twice per Turn |  |
| HOW TO DEFEAT: |  |
| Hero should attack normally. |  |
| Use the different Spells Rolando and Linda have learnt. |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

Go up the stairs.

5F

There are 6 rooms on this floor. Go into the northwest corner room. You have to fight Bazuzu before entering.

| NAME: Bazuzu |  |
| --- | --- |
| EXPERIENCE: 3350 |  |
| GOLD: 240 |  |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: Hero: 37 |  |
| Rolando: 34 |  |
| Linda: 29 |  |
| ATTACKS: |  |
| - Normal Attack |  |
| - Explodet |  |
| - Defeat |  |
| - Sacrifice |  |
| - Stopspell |  |
| - Healall |  |
| HOW TO DEFEAT: |  |
| Hero should attack normally. |  |
| Use the different Spells Rolando and Linda have learnt. |  |

After the batile, go into the northwest corner room then go up the stairs.

6F

Go across the bridge east to find a staircase going up. Before you go up it, you have to fight Valiar

| NAME: Veliar |  |
| --- | --- |
| EXPERIENCE: 4750 |  |
| GOLD: 255 |  |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: Hero: 37 |  |
| Rolando: 34 |  |
| Linda: 29 |  |
| ATTACKS: |  |
| - Normal Attack |  |
| - Attacks Twice per Turn |  |
| - Flame Breath |  |
| - Explodet |  |
| - Healall |  |
| HOW TO DEFEAT: |  |
| Hero should attack normally. |  |
| Use the different Spells Rolando and Linda have learnt. |  |

Go up the stairs after the battle.

7F

Heal up and use your Prayer Rings to replenish some MP. Make sure Rolando is holding 2 Prayer Rings while Linda is holding the other 2. Cast Stepguard then go into the room west and speak to Hargon. It looks like we disturbed his prayer. He'll ask us if we know he's Hargon. Answer with a YES. Time to battle.

<!-- MIXED -->

| NAME: Hargon |  |
| --- | --- |
| EXPERIENCE: 0 |  |
| GOLD: 0 |  |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: Hero: 37 |  |
| Rolando: 34 |  |
| Linda: 29 |  |
| ATTACKS: |  |
| - Normal Attack |  |
| - Attacks Twice per Turn |  |
| - Flame Breath |  |
| - Sleep |  |
| - Sweet Breath |  |
| - Explodet |  |
| - Healmore |  |
| - Healall |  |
| HOW TO DEFEAT: |  |
| Hero should attack normally. |  |
| Use the different Spells Rolando and Linda have learnt. |  |

We did it!!!! Hargon will say we will soon meet our end. He'll say we haven't saved the world yet by defeating him. Hargon will sacrifice himself to summon Malroth. He will fade away. He was probably bluffing. Go south...huh? Flame? Go east..more flames. Go west....more flames!!! What's going on!!??? Arghh!!!! It's freaking Shidor (Malroth)

| NAME: Shidor |  |
| --- | --- |
| EXPERIENCE: 0 |  |
| GOLD: 0 |  |
| RECOMMENDED LEVEL: Hero: 37 |  |
| Rolando: 34 |  |
| Linda: 29 |  |
| ATTACKS: |  |
| - Normal Attack |  |
| - Violent Blaze |  |
| - Defense |  |
| - Increase |  |
| HOW TO DEFEAT: |  |
| Hero should attack normally. |  |
| Use the different Spells Rolando and Linda have learnt. |  |

We did it? What's that bright light....it's blinding me!!! Another Boss Fight....just kidding.....it's Rubiss. Peace has been restored. Rubiss will heal us. Time to return.
