<a id="s3-45"></a>

## 3.45. The End

<!-- MIXED -->

We did it! We saved the world again... Hargon Castle will be destroyed. Burn baby burn!!! Yeah!!! ahem.... Time for past revisits. You know the drill.

**WARNING:** DO NOT SPEAK TO THE NUN IN THE RHONE MONOLITH OR ELSE

YOUR GAME WILL GET BUGGED.

**Beranule**

The Knight near the Weapon Shop will ask you if the Lightning Sword was useful. Answer with a YES because it was!

**Tepa**

Gina wants her husband to be like us. Don Mahone will congratulate us. He weaved such a nice robe for Linda. Gina's husband is drinking north of the Item Shop in his usual spot.

**Perpoy**

The young man near the Campfire figured out everyone is living underground. You can find him near the Inn. Rogue Fastfinger is still in prison. The young boy sleeping in the Church thinks he's the one that defeated Hargon.

**Dercondal**

The King has no doubt that Hero's father will be delighted.

**Zahan**

Luke got his memory back and returned. The little girl in the building south of the Temple wants to marry Hero when she's older.

**Lupegana**

The Bunny Lady will still offer Hero a Puff-Puff. The Merchant that gave us the Echoing Flute will ask us if we found it useful. Answer with a YES.

**Radatome Castle**

Where's that coward called a King. Speak to the Soldier in the Weapon Shop to find out they finally found the King. Go up the stairs. Speak to the King. After speaking to him, he'll return to his Throne. Go to the Throne Room and speak to him again. Our lineage has saved the World 3 times now.

**King Dragon Castle**

Speak to the grandson of King Dragon to find out his name is Ryu....hold on.....Ryu as an....Breath of Fire!???!!?

**Moonpeta**

There are still 2 monsters down the stairs behind the Gold Door in town. Hmmm......but they won't attack you. They'll fade away.

**Moonbrook Castle**

The wandering souls can see Heaven's gate. RIP Huh? The King!!? Speak to him. Let him rest.... goodbye.....

**Sumaltria Castle**

Make sure you speak to Princess.

<!-- MIXED -->

Speak to the King. He wants Rolando to accompany us to Laurasia Castle.

**Liriza**

Speak to the man at the southeast corner of the Town so we can pee on himself. The Soldier west of the Church will help Linda rebuild Moonbrook Castle. The little boy is his son. So his father was alive after all.

**Laurasia Castle**

Go up to reach the Throne Room. Everyone is here. Approach

the King. Linda and Rolando will wait behind. Speak to the

King. He'll thank us for saving the World. He'll ask Hero if he

wants to be King. Say YES of course and you will become

King Hero. Hero, Rolando and Linda must combine their powers

and continue to protect this world!

Enjoy the Night Sky and Fireworks!!!!

And so the young man, who shares the blood of Roto, again returned

peace to the world! Prince Rolando, Princess Linda, and King

Hero. Your names will be handed down for all eternity!

The Credits roll!! Showing you your journey through this game!

Enjoy the Credit!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Good bye...

**/ _ ) / _ _ /**

**,**

OR IS IT?

**( o) ( o)**
