<a id="s3-5"></a>

## 3.5. Spring of Bravery

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Medical Herb |  |
| --- | --- |
| 85 Gold |  |
| Antidote Herb |  |
| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Iron Ant (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Wild Rat (EXP - 5) (GOLD - 5) |  |
| - King Cobra (EXP - 9) (GOLD - 9) |  |

B1F

Our first cave! From the entrance of this cave, travel north then east to find a body of water. Go into the room south of the body of water to find a chest. Open it to find a MEDICAL HERB. From the body of water, go into the dark opening northeast. Go down the stairs in this hidden room.

B2F

Speak to the Knight and he'll ask us if we know we can purify our body in the Spring of Bravery. Answer with a NO to find out it's Laurasia's tradition that traveling fighters visit the spring. Go back up the stairs.

B1F

Return to the body of water. From there, take the southeast path south then west through the dark opening. Go through the dark opening west. Open the chest in the room north to find 85 GOLD. Return to the body of water. From it, go north to the end then go through the dark opening northeast. Go west, southwest then west to find 2 Stone Pillars. Open the chest west to find an ANTIDOTE HERB. Go into the room north in-between the Stone Pillars. Speak to the Old Man and he'll welcome us to the Spring of Bravery. He wants us to soak our body in the spring. After doing that and getting his blessings, he'll ask us if we're looking for the Prince of Sumaltria. Answer with a YES to find out he came here alone and asked after a descendant of Roto that he can party up with. By now, he ought to have reached Laurasia Castle. Get to Level 8 then backtrack and exit this Cave.

**Overworld**

Travel back to Laurasia Castle east of Liriza.

**Laurasia Castle**

Rest at the Inn then make your way to the Throne Room. Speak to the King to find out the Prince of Sumaltria came looking for us. The Prince decided to return back to Sumaltria. SAVE YOUR GAME.

**Overworld**

If you return to Sumaltria Castle and speak to the King, he'll say his son isn't back yet. His sister told us he doesn't like long journies so he must have stopped at Liriza to rest. Go into Liriza.

**Liriza**

Go into the Inn and speak to the person in Green. He's Rolando, the Prince of Sumaltria. He's been searching for us. The Prince will join our party. Go into Weapon Shop and buy Rolando a Chain Mail, Chain Whip and Leather Shield. Now that we have Rolando, we now have an extra space to store items.

**NOTE:** Inn costs are now doubled. If it was 6 Gold, it is now

12 Gold because we have 2 people in our party.

**Overworld**

| (Sumaltria Castle Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Iron Ant (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Specter (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Wild Rat (EXP - 5) (GOLD - 5) |  |

| (Shrine South of Laurasia Castle Outskirts) |

| Monsters Roaming Around: |  |
| --- | --- |
| - Big Slug (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Iron Ant (EXP - 2) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Drakee (EXP - 3) (GOLD - 3) |  |
| - Specter (EXP - 6) (GOLD - 6) |  |
| - Wild Rat (EXP - 5) (GOLD - 5) |  |
| - Babble (EXP - 8) (GOLD - 4) |  |
| - Hoimi Slime (EXP - 15) (GOLD - 5) |  |

Rolando starts off that Level 1 with the HEAL Spell.

Train Rolando to Level 6. At Level 3, Rolando will learn FIREBAL At Level 6, Rolando will learn ANTIDOTE Time to progress. From Laurasia Castle, travel south to find a bridge. Go across it. From there, go southeast then go all the way south to find a Monolith. Go into it.
