<a id="s3-8"></a>

## 3.8. Pit Stop 1

<!-- MIXED -->

| Item Checklist: Lottery Ticket |

**Laurasia Castle**

Unlock the 2 Silver-edged Doors north of the Traveler's Gate. Speak to the Merchant to find out an item called Bell Amulet can protect us from the magic of monsters. However, there is a small chance that the person wearing the item might be put to sleep. Search the drawer to find a LOTTERY TICKET. Speak to the Nun to find out Priest Hargon plans on putting a curse on us and others who seeks to destroy him. Go into the eastern room from the northwest opening. Unlock the Silver-edged door east then go through the opening north. Go down the stairs. Speak to the guard to find out this is the Jail. Approach the upper cell door and the Prisoner will rush over and ask us if we have the Jailor's Key. I thought there's only 2 keys? Hm....answer with a NO and he'll tell us to find the Jailor's Key but he won't give us a hint about where we can find it. If you answer his question with a YES, he'll say he'll tell us something useful if we set him free. Exit this Castle and head for Liriza.

**Liriza**

Go into the Weapon Shop and unlock the Silver-edged door and go through the opening. The man behind the counter runs the Lottery. This is where we use the Lottery Tickets we found. Press the X button once to start the lottery machine, then once again to stop it. Here are the Prizes you can get:

**st Place:** 3 Sun Symbol   : GOLDEN CARD · **nd Place:** 3 Star Symbol  : PRAYER RING · **rd Place:** 3 Moon Symbol  : WIZARD'S STAFF · **th Place:** 3 Slime Symbol : BELL AMULET · **th Place:** 3 Heart Symbol : MEDICAL HERB

If you get 2 in a row he will give you 1 free Lottery Ticket. The Golden Card is a special item. If you have it, the price of things sold at shop will be reduced. Whenever you find Lottery Tickets don't let them go to waste. Come here and try your luck.

**Monolith South of Laurasia Castle**

Speak to the Old Man near the campfire. He'll notice we've obtained the Silver Key. He won't even tell us where to get the Golden Key.

**Overworld**

Time to progress. From Sumaltria Castle, travel southwest then west to find a Monolith. Go into it.
