<a id="s10-1"></a>

## 10.1. Town Expansions

One of the unique features of Terranigma is the ability to expand towns through one or in some cases two level of technology. You can do this by helping the geniuses and inventors around the world with their problems. If you manage to raise the growth index to a sufficient level the town will expand into a bigger and more modern version. Other than visual differences the towns weapon/item/magic shops raise as well allowing you to obtain better equipment. Nirlake and Suncoast even have a special armor and weapon for sale respectively in the highest technology level.

Of all the cities and villages in the world the following five towns can be expanded: Loire, Litz, Freedom, Nirlake and Suncoast. The other locations are either on the highest level (grey buildings on the world map) or cannot be expanded at all like Lhasa. You can easily determine for yourself which towns can be improved by finding Dr. Keinz. He is an economist and knows much about matters like these. Keinz can be found in every expandable town. Talk to him to find out how far you have progressed in the expansions. Below is a list of all the objectives you need to clear in order to expand a town.

Most of the towns can only expand to the highest level after you complete the Great Lake Caverns in North America. I think the reason behind this is that you need to get your first HornPin before you are allowed to buy them in the shops.

Loire - Expansions: 2 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expansion 1 - - - - - - To reach the first expansion you only need to vote for Jean, after the kind dies. If you voted for Louis the town will never be able to grow. You may also need to talk to Matis and the weavers after the voting event too.

Expansion 2 - - - - - - -Get a painting from Matis and sell it to Rich in Britain -Get some wine from the Boss and give it to the girl in Freedom's pub -Get some Fancy Clothes from Marily and give it to the 3 Girls in Freedom -Help Eddy with the invention of the camera -Take pictures of Loire and show them in all Tourism Centers -Complete the Great Lake Caverns in North America -Complete the electricity experiment with Jean in Freedom

Litz - Expansions: 1 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expansion 1 - - - - - - -Get a crystal for 1000 Gems and give it to the craftsman -Find the Tin Sheet in Will's home and give it to the fisherman -The fisherman gives you the Canned Sardines in return. You should give these to Stoma in Nirlake -Make pictures in Litz and show them in all the other cities

The growth index should now reach 100%, but I noticed that this is sometimes no enough to make it grow bigger. This is what I tried next to all the previous items:

-Get a fever medicine and give it to the ill man in Suncoast's inn after that town expands. -Talk to all the people to find out that the town is doing well... -Make the Quatros move to South America by rubbing the woman's back twice -Meet Columbus at the Portal (proven to be not required)

After all 8 conditions were met the town expanded, but I am not sure whether everything in the last three items is necessary at all.

Freedom - Expansions: 2 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expansion 1 - - - - - - -Complete the obligatory part with Perel -Help Bell by finding out about Amanda in Nirlake. You can lie or tell the truth, but only if you tell the truth will you be able to receive an additional Magirock -Help Eddy with electricity by pushing against his machine three times

Expansion 2 - - - - - - -Talk to Bell again to show you a working version of his telephone -Help Eddy with pressing the buttons on both machines at the same time -Take pictures of Freedom and show them in all Tourism Centers -Complete Dragoon Castle and talk to Will afterwards

Nirlake - Expansions: 2 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expansion 1 - - - - - - -Help Mick with his new food call the 'Big Mick' -Take some pictures of Nirlake and show them in all Tourism Centers -Complete Beruga's Lab

Expansion 2 - - - - - - -give the nine letters for aid to the people you helped out earlier in your quest:

1. Nirlake - Will 2. Freedom - Bell 3. Freedom - Eddy 4. Litz - Fisherman 5. Loire - Pierre 6. Loire - Matis 7. Loire - Marily 8. Loire - Winery Boss 9. Britain - Rich

Suncoast - Expansions: 1 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expansion 1 - - - - - - -Take pictures of Freedom and show them in all Tourism Centers -Get the Tasty Meat from the Beef Guy in the back of town, and give it to Stoma for some Gems. -Complete Beruga's Lab -Get the Airfield Plans from Will and give them to the mayor
