<a id="s11-1"></a>
## 11.1. Extra

<a id="s11-1-1"></a>

### 11.1.1. Glitches

Here I will describe some of the glitches that are present in this game.

Spelling Errors --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Apparently this game is filled with errors of this kind. See below for some interesting scenarios. Perhaps there are even more of these to be found...

The ' - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - After freeing Yomi he says:

"Besides, what do you mean by 'it"

Clearly the apostrophe here is not right. It's not even supposed to be here... I wonder what went wrong here?

The , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Similarly after freeing Yomi in Storkholm will yield the following scenario where he says:

"For the innocent folk here, the, box's significance won't be clear."

There are a lot of commas close together here. One would have been enough.

Damn the Dam - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Close to the Kingbird's nest there are three gull which can take you to different locations on the world map. Talk to any of them and turn their offer down (you need to do this before resurrecting the humans as you lose the ability to talk with the flora and fauna afterwards. The gull then says:

"Dam! It pains me that I can't serve you 'Player name here'."

Perhaps Nintendo though the word "damn" would be too offensive and mellowed it down by misspelling it... Who knows.

More Gull speech - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Go with the gull to Zue for the first time. Then the gull has the following to say:

"There used to be countless animals here. This was a happening place!"

Although this is not a spelling error it seems to me that "happening" is not really the right word to use in this case, or is that just me?

Even more bird speech - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Talk to the King bird before reviving the wind at Windvale. He says:

"Where is Windvale? You should ask a gulldown below."

Notice that the words "gull" & "down" are attached to each other.

Mme. Papilo - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - After expanding Loire into the second and final expansion you can enter Mme. Papilo's shop again. If you talk to her now you get the following message:

"Shriek! What every anoyone says, I won't fold my shop!"

The question is what she means with "anoyone"? It is probably just a small spelling mistake that the translators oversaw after they typed the words in.

You wanna "data" me? - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - In Neotokio there a girl in a dress says:

"...to ask me on a data? but you're dressed so odd" This is more than a coincidence to me. Although it sounds funny IMO.

The town of Nirlake ecame... - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - After Nirlake is rebuilt from the ashes enter one of the big buildings in the center. Here there is a blue haired guy behind a counter on the left side. Talk to him and he tells you:

"Because of the fire, Nirlake ecame widely known."

Surely how hard would it be to NOT notice this error. Unless the game testers never played through the game for 100%.

Ark's crazy dream - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - In Asterica talk to the guy at the bottom (the alternative Meihou) and he proclaims the following:

[...] "night dewn Collects over A year."

It was supposed to be "dew" as the sentence makes no sense otherwise... - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Are you talking to me? (I) --------------------------------------------------------------------------- When you finally resurrect the humans in Eklamata Kumari tells you that you are no longer able to communicate with any of the animals and plants you could converse with before. If you go back however to KingNest in the Sanctuar you will find out that the bird behind the counter actually responds to you in words.

Are you talking to me? (II) --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Similar to the glitch above the mouse in the Sprinting Test area hidden in South America is able to speak as well. This glitch is known to many people, but it is mentioned here for the sake of completeness.

Beruga or Veruga --------------------------------------------------------------------------- This game is originally from Japan and over there the Japanese people do not have a letter "V" so they use the "B" instead to pronounce a "V". This leads to some sloppy errors sometimes. Throughout the entire game Beruga is spelled with a "B" so that is okay, however if you look at the map inside Beruga's Lab you will discover that it says Veruga at the top of the screen.
