<a id="s11-1-2"></a>

### 11.1.2. Stuff

Some additional hidden features and other quirks are described here. These are most often small things in the game that don't seem to fit in any of the other categories.

Soul Blazer & Illusion of Gaia references --------------------------------------------------------------------------- After freeing the programmer from the trashcan in Neotokio the Quintet building appears on the empty lot. Talk to the manager in here to find out that this game was intended to be called: "Illusion of Gaia 2" as the third game in the Soul Blazer series.

The Cadet's secret --------------------------------------------------------------------------- You are probably well aware of the look the Cadet casts on Ark to immobilize him, if let this happen several times the Cadet may at some point cast a 'sexy look' at you. I don't know who's idea this was to put this in, but it sure is really weird to me.

Chicken Races --------------------------------------------------------------------------- After Loire gets expanded to the second level a Poultry appears to the far north (Denmark should be on this location on the real world map). There is nothing to there, however until Loire gets to third technology level. If you visit the Poultry then you'll notice that the top fence is removed. Head up to find the chicken races. You can pick any of the four chickens that compete, but you cannot choose the multiplication factor for it is set by the computer. It costs 50 Gems to participate and the biggest possible bet is 8x your input, if you are lucky enough that that specific chicken wins the race. The lady next to the ballot can give you a hint for 10 Gems, but I found out that those hints are not always correct.

Hidden dummy chests --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Recently Enthor mailed me about a hidden chest in Gumin forest. You cannot see this chest, but when playing on an emu disable the first background layer (BG #1). Then you can see a chest behind one of the rightmost trees at the bottom of the screen. This chest however is useless as you cannot open it. On the graphic is there, but no event rendering this chest useless.

Statistic Boosting Item List --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Below here is a short summary of all the statistic boosting items Ark will come across in his travels.

Life Potion - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1. Tower #4 - Near the M.Bulb at the dead end on F3 2. Ra Tree - Hidden in an abbey on B3F 3. Grecliff - After finding the 5th Magirock go left past the Borfes to enter a room with the potion 4. Zue - Near the 65 Gems chest, just after restoring the 2nd Altar 5. Elkamata - After the avalanche a chest becomes reachable to the north 6. Norfest - First screen after passing the broken bridge. Hidden behind a tree in the lower left corner. It is not visible, so walk around to bump into the chest. 7. Nirlake - Before the town expands, inside the shack in the SW corner 8. hidden area- In South America there is a hidden ruin area hidden to the north of the Sprinting test. 9. hidden cave- Enter the cavern at the South Pole. The chest is next to the location where you find the Sea Mail. 10. hidden area- In Australia enter the mountain area to the far west. Climb all the way up the long right vine to find it. 11. Lab Tower - In Meihou's room inside Beruga's tower just before boarding the airship.

STR Potion - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1. Grecliff - Climb up the vine near the first Mud Mans you come across Inside the cavern behind it is the potion 2. Louran - N Side; hidden in front of the completely fenced off building. You can get there by entering the building to the right of it. 3. Sylvain - In the same room as the tightropes. Dash jump to reach it 4. hidden area- Head out with the boat to Alaska and enter the ruin area in the forest on the world map.

DEF Potion - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1. Zue - After restoring the first altar the chest should be reachable by swimming to the southern island 2. Sylvain - When the chandeliers are lowered you can reach it in the room where the Ruby is found. 3. Mu - If you resurrected Mu you can find one of these over there 4. Beruga Lab - In the room with the first cubes you meet

```
Luck Potion
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 1. Zue        - When all Altars are restored, swim to the lone island at
                 the entrance of Zue to find it
 2. Litz       - Before town expands check the chest in the NW corner
 3. hidden area- The southern island of Indonesia has a secret area where
                 you can find this potion
 4. Sewer      - Inside Neotokio's sewer after finding the H.Water and in
                 the same room as the Fauchard.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
```
