<a id="s3"></a>
# 3. Controls

<a id="s3-1"></a>

## 3.1. Controller

D-Pad ------------ Walk around on the map (Ark can also walk diagonally), move Yomi inside Pandora's Box and press it twice in the same direction quickly to make Ark run.

Start ------------ Pauses the game

Select ------------ Enter Pandora's Box after you find it in the basement of the Elder's home

A Button ------------ Attack an enemy with your spear. Press it quickly to have Ark perform the Rushing attack. For the rest it has the same function as the 'Y' button. In menus and such this button is used to confirm an option.

B Button ------------ Jump around on the map. You can also jump while running to make a bigger leap. Attack while jumping to perform a Spinner attack, also attack while doing a running jump to perform the Slider attack. You need this to jump over small gaps in the first towers and later on as well. In menus this button is also used to cancel options.

X Button ------------ After equipping an item inside Pandora's Box to the Item Box in the top right corner you can use it on the map with X.

Y Button ------------ Use this to run, while walking. This also makes your airplane move faster on the World Map.

Top L Button ------------ Use this button to talk to people, examine spots, and open chests. Like the 'A' Button this is your main action button. If you use either one of the shoulder buttons during a paused game (press start) you can alter the layout of the numbers that appear on the screen (e.g. Life Meter / Item / Level). Press when you're in the airplane to descend in height.

Top R Button ------------ This button is used to have Ark take a defensive position so he performs his X-Guard. This maneuver will block any projectile, but it is impossible to block physical attacks with it. Use to change lay-out of the icons during game pause(see Top L Button). When you are in the airplane you can gain altitude by pressing 'R' as well.
