<a id="s3-3"></a>

## 3.3. Statistics

Like most RPGs Ark has statistics that increase by leveling up and equipping weapons and armors. Here's a brief summary of kind of statistics used in this game.

Level - - - Ark initially stars at level 1 and as you defeat more and stronger enemies it steadily grows by gaining more Exp. If Ark gets a certain amount of Exp. he raises a level, his statistics increase and he becomes temporarily invulnerable. The maximum level Ark can reach in the game is level 50, but you only need to get little over 30 to beat the game without too much difficulty.

Experience (Exp.) - - - - - - - - - The monsters you fight during your quest all have a certain amount Exp. which you will receive when you beat them. If you gain enough Exp. then Ark gains a level as described above.

Life - - - This is Ark's Hit Point (HP) meter and displays how much energy Ark has. If this number decreases to 0 Ark dies and you get a Game Over screen, which means that you have to restart from one of the previously saved files. During your quest Life increases pretty rapidly and before level 40 it will max out to 999, this process can be sped up even more by savoring the Life Potions that you come across in the game. Some armors like the SoulArmr(+50) and the RedArmr(-50) affect the amount of Life as well. Take note however that the maximum Life can never exceed 999 points.

Strength (STR) - - - - - - - - Strength simply measures how much damage you can deal to your enemy, when you attack it with an attack from your spear. It grows with almost every level and it is also increased by the weapon you carry. At level 50 (without the STR potions) your strength should be 99. Some of the weapons and armors like the AlphaRod / EnbuPike and RedArmr can alter the amount of strength even more than the basic attack they have.

Defense (DEF) - - - - - - - Ark's total defense determines how much damage he receives from enemy attacks. Projectiles can always be deflected with the X-Guard no matter what your defense power is. As with Strength you can get up to 99 points for defense by leveling up. Additional points can be gained by drinking DEF potions or equipping certain weapons like the BlockRod and the 3PartRod.

Luck (LCK) - - - - - - Luck is used for several things. Firstly, it determines the amount of damage the Magic Rings will do on your enemies. Secondly a high amount of Luck decreases the chance of getting affected by an ailment and finally it determines the chance of getting a critical hit (described below). You can raise Luck by using one of the few Luck Potions you will find in around the globe. Other than that weapons like the EnbuPike can increase Luck too, but at the cost of Strength.
