<a id="s3-4"></a>

## 3.4. Ailments

Ark can be affected by several types of Ailments. Some of them are not too much of a problem, but others can be devastating if you can't cure them in sufficient time. Notice that not every ailment has a name, so I tried to come up with names that resemble them as good as possible.

There is a special armor call the Pro Armr that can block ALL ailment transformations, which makes it very useful in some occasions. Other armors can block some of the ailments like Poison and Confusion only.

Toasted - - - - If Ark gets hit by flame/fire attacks or projectiles he may very well get burned to a black crisp version coughing up some smoke. The damage is minor, but you cannot move for about 2 or 3 seconds, which can be annoying at some times.

Sleep - - - The Guardner's projectile you come across in second and third Tower induce sleep on you so he can draw you near him and teleport you back to the start of the tower. These projectiles are easily avoided and after getting & equipping the Sleepless Seal this problem should be over.

Blown away - - - - - - Douma sharp breath and touching a Pupil(a) causes Ark to get thrown back in the direction he came from. This sometimes causes him to return to the previous screen if this happens in the line of a passageway.

Immobilized - - - - - - This is just a type of paralysis that can be caused by for example Quaker. If you are in the mid-air while Quaker causes a tremor Ark will not be immobilized.

Frozen - - - - Some rare enemies like the Blue Slime and Dark Gaia's Blue Bolt attack may cause you to get trapped inside a huge ice crystal. As with toasted it takes Ark several seconds to break free from his entrapment, during this time he is vulnerable to any hostile attacks.

Confused - - - - - The Rakshaki and the Green Slime are a few examples of the enemies that can cause this very annoying ailment on you. Confusion causes Ark's controls to change every few seconds. For example Up & Down may become Left & Right and vice versa, then 20 seconds later this changes to a different set up and so on. The easiest way to cure this is to enter a different room, because the ailment dissolves as soon as you leave the room where you got it from. Next to that the WindPin can heal it for you.

Poison - - - - The Zombies, Amarantes and the Doumas from Zue are most often the cause of this ailment. If you are poisoned you will gradually take damage, until you heal it with Poison Cure (P.Cure) found in most of these places. Armors like the LeafSuit and SlvrArmr can protect you from this kind of ailment all the same.

Deadly Poison - - - - - - - A more severe version of Poison exists that appears much later in the game. It is caused most often by the Doumas from the Great Lake Caverns. Where Poison was just a nuisance this Venom status cause much more damage and can in some cases kill you in matter of seconds. Make sure that you buy at least a few Serums before visiting the caverns, or it may be the last exploration that you make.

Curse - - - The Maduus and the red Blood Skeletons are few of the enemies that can put a curse on you. When this happens Ark stops moving from time to time and you get the see a red heart icon appearing over his head. I find this somewhat strange, but it simply means that you get paralyzed every few steps you make. It can be cured by taking a Stardew in or prevented by equipping the MonkRobe from Lhasa's shop.

Death Curse - - - - - - I can only think of the blue flames of the Phantom from Neotokio's sewers as the single attack that causes this dreaded pox on you. If you get hit by this status a little counter starts counting down from 20 to 0. Of course when it hits 0 the Grim Reaper gets you and Ark die instantly! So use Holy Water (H.Water) to cleanse your body from this evil. The HolyRobe from Asterica is the only armor next to the Pro Armr that can prevent this status.

STR Down - - - - - When this happens Ark's strength diminishes to about 1/10 of his original attack power, which means that you can do only very little damage to your opponents. Security Bot (Boss) and Figure Head both from Beruga's Lab are a few examples of enemies that induce this ailment just by touching you.

DEF Down - - - - - The Mini Slime and the Chariots (regular & bloody) are some examples that can manage to cause Ark to have his defense lowered. I don't know exactly how much this gets lowered, but you will most definitely receive more damage than usual.

Get Robbed - - - - - - The Robbers inside Neotokio's Sewer dungeon can actually steal quite some Gems from Ark if they get the chance. When this happens go after them quickly to reclaim them, if you are too slow the Robber leaves the scene and your Gems will be gone! The Robber himself can drop 311 Gems if you beat one.
