<a id="s3-5"></a>

## 3.5. Combat system

The combat system is action based so you will have to move around attack the enemies by direction action commands rather than having to select certain in-direct battle actions. Another side effect is that you have to try to hit your opponent without giving it the chance to strike you as well, or else you take damage.

Special Attacks --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Some enemies are resistant to normal attack and require you to attack them with certain special moves in order to cause damage on them. Here are the four special attacks that Ark can use in this game.

Rushing - - - - Press 'A' rapidly to create a constant stream of weak attacks that can be used to paralyze an enemy so it can't attack back. The attack is very weak, but it will always do at least 1 point damage for each hit. With the fast stream slow enemies like the Living Statue do not even get the chance to retaliate meaning that you can take them out without effort after they get stuck in the stream. This attack is meant for attacking slow, big and strong enemies.

Slicer - - - - While running do an attack and Ark will lunge forwards pointing the tip of his spear out. This attack is mainly used to attack fast enemies like the Borfe and Figure Heads.

Spinner - - - - When you are in mid-air do an attack and Ark will perform a Spinner attack that is ideal for taking out enemies on elevated sections or aerial opponents like the Perinton.

Slider - - - - If Ark is jumping while running he can perform a long range Slider attack that takes out submerged enemies like the Raiden and Mud Doll. This is one of my favorite attacks, because the range is big and you can keep on moving with maximum speed with this attack.

X-Guard - - - - Ark has only one defensive special move in his repertoire and it is used solely for blocking projectile attack. Press the top 'R' button to have Ark block with a flashing X-shaped cross, hence the name. This way you can block any projectile, but Ark cannot defend against normal regular attacks and will get hit if you try to block using this. You better use this only from a distance.

Getting some currency --------------------------------------------------------------------------- The combat system in this game only gives you Exp for beating an opponent. In order to obtain some of the "Gem" currency used in this game you need to collect it from the floor as enemies may drop it when they explode. The amount of Gems you get differs per enemy, but there are three different appearances of the money on the floor:

| Type | Minimal |
| --- | --- |
| Coin | 1 |
| Gold Bar | 10 |
| Gold Bar (3x) | 100 |

The triple gold bar is actually pretty rare; Douma (Great Lake Cavern), Cube, Robber, Chariot & Bloody Chariot are the only enemies in the game who drop more than 100 Gems. It can be noted that some of the enemies that dissolve in the wall (Guardner) or collapse like Maduu and Bloody Skeleton will never yield any Gems at all.

Using magical spells --------------------------------------------------------------------------- There are 10 different types of Magic Rings you can obtain in this game and 5 distinct "Summon" Pins that allow you to conjure one of the friends you helped earlier in the game. I never use these because the Spear does more than enough effective damage plus you are not allowed to use Magic attacks in the Boss battles (Bloody Mary is the only exception here). WindPins for healing annoying ailments and BonePins for retreating in an instant from a dungeon are in my opinion the most useful ones of the lot.
