<a id="s3-6"></a>

## 3.6. Environmental Elements

Water - - - In the beginning of the game Ark cannot swim, but after he finds the Big Leaves inside the Ra Tree he can freely swim around any watery area. Much later on he can also find the Air Herb which allows him to dive near the spots where bubbles appear.

Pots & Jars - - - - - - There are numerous of these items scattered throughout the game and you can pick most of them up with no effort. After you carry one you can throw it in any direction. Throw one while running to throw at more than twice the regular distance.

Red Jeweled Statues - - - - - - - - - - In some of the dungeons you will come across some statues with a red jewel in the forehead. Unlike the ones with blue jewels you can move these around in any direction, often leading to a solution of a specific puzzle.

Edges with no railings - - - - - - - - - - - - In some areas you will notice that there is no railing to keep you from falling down certain sections. Although at some times this may only cause damage, there exist many situations where falling down the railing is just the thing you need to do in order to proceed to the next part of a dungeon. Try this when you seem to get stuck at a dead end in certain dungeon.

Vines & Chains on the wall - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Ark can climb up and down with no effort if you press 'up' or 'down' on the control pad. Alternatively press 'A' to release the vine so you can descend much faster simply by falling down.

Dotted walls - - - - - - - After getting the Sharp Claws at Grecliff Ark can climb these walls as well. Ark can even move horizontally along these walls as well.

Switches - - - - - There are several types of switches you will come across in the game. Most of them are use to open doorways or move certain platforms, not much special to note here.

Teleporters - - - - - - In one of the final dungeons you'll come across very big teleportation devices. If Ark jumps inside one of these he gets transported to a different area in a split second.
