<a id="s7-1-4"></a>

### 7.1.4. Ascend to Earth

**Crysta - Elder's**

After resurrecting all five Continental Islands (and the two optional ones

if you like) go to visit the Elder for your next instructions. The old

geezer tells you that only the landmasses are reborn, but not the life that

is associated with it. Ark has to ascend from the Underworld to the

External Face in order to set things right and revive all the life forms

that belong to it. The Elder tells you to go to the large hole to the east

of the village so you can meet him there.

**Hole**

The Elder gives you some advice about the Upper World and surviving it.

Ark's CrySpear cannot heal him there (as it did under the Crystal Blue) so

you need to be more careful about your actions. If you haven't visited Elle

yet he tells you to see her right now, because it will be the last time you

will see her in a long time.

**Crysta - Weaver's**

If you try to enter Elle's room she tells Ark to stay put. She wants to

send him away with a happy smile, and therefore she is currently unable to

look in his eyes. She feared that Ark would leave her sooner or later, but

she hopes that her close friend returns one day to see her again.

**Hole**

After some final words you can choose to depart to desolated upper world

that is called Earth. If you do this you will no longer be able to go back,

until your task is fully completed. So if you wish to resurrect the

optional continents and/or get all Magirocks you have to do that now! When

you choose "No, let's go." Ark is allowed to ascend (or actually descend by

falling into the pit).
