<a id="s7-1-2"></a>

### 7.1.2. The trials of the 5 towers

**Underworld**

To the Southeast of the village you can find the first tower. You can try

to explore the rest of the underworld, but there is nothing to do around

here. So don't waste time on that, because all the towers are locked except

for the first one. Notice that whenever you are hurt your CrySpear will

heal you gradually. That is the advantage of being under the Crystal Blue.

**Tower 1**

**Chests:** 1 (6)

S. Bulb

**Magirocks:** 3 (3)

-Located on the second floor on the east side

-On the third floor on the left elevated section

-On the fourth floor near the entrance guarded by a Living Statue

Monsters:

Living Statue, Purple Huball, Red Whisp

Boss:

Red Huball (4x)

When you approach the first tower the Guardian Face on the door tells you to enter and complete this tower. After telling him that you are here to "Save some friends" the door opens up and lets you inside. Don't forget to equip your CrySpear (and the clothes for armor) if you haven't done this or else you cannot attack. Inside the first corridor there are some very weak enemies called Huballs. I prefer to kill most enemies in the game with the Slider attack, but that is just my opinion. Defeat them for some coins and Exp. Note that unlike most RPGs you have to collect the gems as items they drop sometimes by yourself.

On the second floor you can get your first Magirock, it is just there in plain sight. Be careful of the Whisps around here, because their attack burns you causing more damage than usual. Use the X-Guard to protect yourself against these projectiles. In the center of the room there is a heightened platform, if you kill the right Whisp it will turn into a Wandering Soul and it will open the gate to the next floor for you. Beat just a few more enemies to reach level 2, so the 2 Knights on the next floor are a bit easier to beat (use Rushing to drain their HP fast). If you level up to level 4 even the powerful Living Statues can be taken out in one Slider Attack!

<!-- MIXED -->

In the SE corner of the third floor the Wandering Spirit inside the Huball will tell you that fighting alone won't get you to the top. Collect the S.Bulb from the chest here and 'walk' outside the broken window the lower left part to reach the next floor. Inside collect the Magirock and fall down the open section near the top of the screen. Follow the route to the top floor and meet up with a cloaked figure blocking the path to an entrance in the center of floor.

Mini-Boss: Red Huball (4x)

**HP:** 14 (each) · **Exp:** 4 (each) · **Gems:** 6 (each drop)

I can hardly call this a special battle, because they are regular enemies in the next tower. The game's music speeds up, so I guess that it was meant to be one. Just attack the balls with your preferred attack and it should be over quite quickly. I coincidently hit level 3 in this battle, just for reference. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- When all four balls have left the building the Guardian's voice tells you that the Earth is trying to be resurrected again and you are allowed to enter the control room. Inside, view the nice animation as the continent of Eurasia gets resurrected, with the Greek Temple and a Buddha Statue as the main land marks. Notice how the game uses the Japanese View of the world. You'd be surprised to see the amount of world map made in modern life; America & Europe also have different views on the world both having their continent in the center and the rest around it! And that is very true, no joke here. Also the weavers & Elle are unfrozen as well, you can go there or go to the second tower right away.

**Tower 2**

**Chests:** 2 (8)

30 Gems, S.Bulb

**Magirocks:** 3 (6)

-First room SW corner on the elevated section.

-Second floor right elevated section in the SE corner.

-Fourth floor on the left in plain sight

Monsters:

Cadet, Purple Huball, Red Whisp, Red Huball

Follow the path to the north starting from the 1st tower to reach this place. Go inside, up the left stairs and collect Magirock down the left corner and go around for the 30 Gems from the chest on the right. Next beat the Red Whisp to free a soul who will give you a hint about the jewels on the statues. As expected, push the two statues with a red jewel towards the center of the room to reveal two staircases. Go up the right stairs and press the button to the left. You can get a hint from the Soul down in the corner near the Magirock. Go down, up the left stairs and press the second button to open the gate (there is also a chest with an S.Bulb inside).

On the third floor push the red jeweled statues to be able to activate all four switches in each corner to lower the water level. This allows you to right the fourth floor of this tower. Push both movable pillars outwards to open the gate to the final floor, or push either one of them inwards to make 13 Purple Huballs appear scattered across the room. If you do this, you have to reenter the room to clear it.

Ascend to the fifth floor and throw one of the six blue pots against the switch in the center to reach the Guardian again. He allows you to enter the Control Room right away for the resurrection of South America with an Inca Statue as landmark on it and another neat animation accompanying it. There is nothing new to be done in Crysta so you might as well head for the third tower located to the north-east right now.

**Tower 3**

**Chests:** 2 (10)

S.Bulb, Sleepless Seal

**Magirocks:** 2 (8)

-Basement floor; get there by falling down the arrow platforms or stairs

-Third floor in the back room with the Sleepless seal in the SE corner

Monsters:

Cadet, Guardner, Red Huball

Boss:

High Cadet

Once Ark gets inside wait for the Arrow Platforms to create a bridge for you and then cross it. Use your jumping / Slider abilities to get through this room with relative ease taking out the Hue Balls that appear around here. To the north are some Arrow Platforms that will fall down if you stand too long on them, so run over them with 'Y'. Of course you can let yourself fall down deliberately to find a Magirock below or alternatively just go down the stairs to the right. Go up the stairs in the center and walk to the right (there is a gap in the wall) to get to the chest with an S.Bulb.

Next head up to the 2nd floor and go down the corridor carefully watching out for the spears coming out of the wall. Near the bottom press the switches in such a way that a diagonal path is created to the right. Get to the most northern path and watch out for the Guardner that appears on the wall here, his projectile attack can put you asleep and can send you back to the Tower's entrance! Defend against it with the X-Guard if necessary.

1. Go up another floor and take either left or right passage to the north, when you approach the northern passage it opens up.
2. Go inside and collect the Sleepless Seal from the chest on the left side of the room.
3. Equip the item (Select it inside the Pandora's Box with Yomi) so you'll be protected against the Guardner's Sleep attack.

On the other side of the room there is a Magirock for Ark to collect. Clear out all the enemies to the north. Then press the two buttons to make 8 more Red Huballs appear and to open the passageway as well.

<!-- MIXED -->

In the final room the gate is unguarded, but you can't enter it. Walk down here to hear the Guardian's voice again. He tells you to beat the Cadet in order to be allowed in the control room. And so the battle against the upgraded Cadet commences.

Mini-Boss: High Cadet

**HP:** 15 · **Exp:** 0(!)

This is a High Cadet and it has learned a new trick. It can create two regular Cadet clones. You have to hit the High Cadet in order to do some damage. If you hit the dummy you'll have to fight a regular Cadet, until it is dead. This boss only has a wee 15 HP so it should be done with 2 correct hits. Unfortunately I haven't been able to find out which Cadet looks real, but I think it is the one to your rear the moment they fire an energy orb at you. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- When the Cadet is gone the Guardian commends you and you get to resurrect Africa with the Pyramid (probably one of Gizeh) as a land mark. Again there is nothing to be done in Crysta, so walk a few steps east to tower number 4.

**Tower 4**

**Chests:** 4 (14)

44 Gems, Life Potion, M.Bulb, Crystal Thread

**Magirock:** 3 (11)

-Left side of the screen, on the elevated section of Basement Floor 1

-Floating island on the Second floor; reach it via the tightrope

-3rd floor in the upper right corner

Monsters:

Cadet, Guardner, Red Huball, Spark

Boss:

Dancing Huball Troupe

Inside the Guardian awaits you and sends not one, not two, but three regular Cadets at you... That's pretty lame. After they're annihilated you can start walking tightropes, approach them and Ark automatically uses his Spear for balance. Walk around and you'll quickly discover that there is no stairway or anything to climb around here. Talk to the Wandering Soul in the SE corner after beating the possessing Cadet to find out that you must fall down somewhere on this floor. You can do this anywhere on any tightrope to reach the first basement level.

Ark can fall down to the second basement floor on four different spots, but only the lower left one is different from the other three. Go down one of the three (NE, NW, SW) gaps and work your way up to the stairs back up to the previous floor. Collect the 44 Gems from the South-east corner and

the Magirock to the opposite side. Next go up two floors and walk over the lower tightrope to get a Magirock. To the far left you can get an M.Bulb and a Life Potion as treasure from the two chests. For the rest this is a dead end here, so backtrack to the big room with those four gaps. Fall down the lower right one for a different route up to the top of the tower.

<!-- MIXED -->

1. Collect the Crystal Thread on the 3rd floor, you need this item so don't forget to open this chest.
2. Walk over the tightrope (preferably) the lower one, or else you have to navigate past a fast moving and invincible spark.
3. Go north here to find a third Magirock in this tower.

Next go left using the highest tightrope in order to approach to the door to the control room. This seems to be too easy and as expected the Guardian sends you to a battle arena forcing you into combat against a series of Yellow Huballs.

Dancing Huball Troupe (8 Yellow Huballs)

**HP:** 14 (each) · **Exp:** 4 (each) · **Coins:** 6 (each drop)

This chain of eight curled up Huballs is invincible except for the trailing segment. So try to avoid the entire chain and hit the last one with your spear. This will cause the segment to detach from the others, then you can take it out with a few blows. Do this 8 times and you're done. Some people may find it hard to hit the fast moving target. If you have problems with this as well, then wait for the troupe to form a vertical line (they hold position for a few seconds when doing this) and attack them at that moment. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- When they are all defeated you get to enter the control room and resurrect the Indians native region of North America marked by a Totem Pole. You may want to go to the small dungeon found to the south of the fourth tower, but you cannot complete that, until tower 5 is finished. Tower five however is problem as well, because you get thrown outside by the Guardian projectile if you enter it. You need some special armor to reflect it instead, so go back to Crysta.

**Crysta**

If you speak to Elle she tells you that the Crystal Tread (which you found

in the last tower) is beautiful and very useful for the robe she is

weaving, then she automatically takes it from you. Speak to her again and

she tells Ark to go to bed, because he seems very tired. You'd better

listen to her and do as she says.

Approach your bed and enter it to fall asleep right away. At night you will wake up again... on the floor! Go outside and try to visit Elle once more. She's working on your cape and prays to it hoping that it will protect her Ark from danger. Talk to her and she tells you to return to bed as she finishes the cape for you in the morning. You can answer the question she gives to you in a way that suits you best. After this scene go back to bed and after waking up in a different position you receive the first of the four special armors from Elle the 'ElleCape'. Equip it and venture out to the fifth tower.

**Tower 5**

Monsters:

Cadet, Guardner, Red Whisp

Boss:

Shadow Keeper

<!-- MIXED -->

If you have Elle's Cape equipped you can ward of the orb, so you won't be thrown outside again. Head up the stairs several times, but don't go into the huge passage with light radiating from it. It is a trap that sends you back to the beginning of the tower again! Instead follow the very tight passage to the right and meet up with the Guardian who tells you about your final challenge of the tower quest. Go up and ignite all the flames as you pass by them. At the very end the first real boss of this game awaits you: The Shadowkeeper.

**Boss:** Shadowkeeper

Right & Left Claw

**HP:** 40 (each) · **Exp:** 30 (each)

Coins: -

**HP:** 50 · **Exp:** 100 · **Coins:** -

Mask

**HP:** 100 · **Exp:** 100 · **Coins:** -

Eye

If your level is very low than it will be very hard to beat this boss, so make sure that it is at least 6 or 7 (which should be normal, if you fought all monsters). The battle against this creature has three different phases.

**Phase 1 - The Claws**

Initially, the Shadowkeeper crawls a few steps forward and attacks you with

his claws. Attack them and beware of his stomp attack where he uses both

claws to strike the floor. Also try to use the X-guard against the green

needles that he spits from his mouth. Keep on hitting the claws until they

are both gone. There is a time limit on this part however. If you take way

too long about this part the Shadowkeeper will eventually reach the

doorway. The moment this happens you are sent back to the previous room,

which means that you have to start the battle all over again. After his

claws are gone the tail appears again. The battle isn't finished yet, but

don't worry you are past the hardest part.

**Phase 2 - The Mask**

The tail tries to sting if you give it a chance, or he can shoot some more

green needles at you. So you better use Rushing attack on the Mask from the

side in order to avoid the needles all the same. If you keep on Rushing the

big scorpion-like creature also withdraws a few steps, until it is backed

up to the rear wall. It may take some time, but eventually you'll drain all

the Mask's HP. When it breaks his red eye becomes visible and the last

phase of the battle starts.

**Phase 3 - The Eye**

The Shadowkeeper will be almost completely helpless if you manage to break

his Mask. Keep on using the Rushing Attack to keep it stunned and it should

go down rather quickly.

BTW. If you leveled to a very high (level 10 or so) you can beat him with only two hits, but what is the fun of that? I noted that a high level may cause instant kills on bosses. So if you ever get stuck try to reach two or three higher experience levels and you'll be able to take out the boss in a breeze, which previously seemed to be a powerful überman. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Victory on the Shadowkeeper allows you to resurrect Australia (Airs Rock is the continental mark here). Finally, everybody in Crysta will regain their original state again. Go back to the Elder for more advice on what to do next. Ark can complete the following two optional mini-dungeons in order to resurrect two more miniature continents (they are not required for the story, but it is nice to resurrect these as well). You have to do this now, because after you go to the surface world you cannot no longer enter the Underworld anymore!
