<a id="s7-1"></a>
## 7.1. The Outset

<a id="s7-1-1"></a>

### 7.1.1. Apologize for your mischief

**Crysta**

(Total number of Chests / Hidden Items so far)

**Hidden Items:** 1 (1)

ElleCape - Give Elle the Crystal Thread from Tower 4 and she gives it in

return

**Chests:** 2 (3)

50 Gems*, S. Bulb*

* = reachable after opening Pandora's Box

You start inside the Elder's home so we start our Walkthrough where we find the main protagonist.

**Elder's**

Ark is lying in bed (RPGs always start in bed) and he is just about to get

awakened by Elle, a friendly girl who is weaving as an occupation. She asks

whether Ark is alright, because he seemed to be having a weird nightmare.

After Ark tells her about these dreams she says that you should go outside

and get some fresh air under the Crystal Blue sky, then she leaves back to

the weaver's cottage.

You can get up, move around and examine the open book on the table. This is were you can save your game. Please do so, because the game doesn't create a save file for you. Walk around and talk to the people for some information about the Crystal Blue. Ark can also eat the apples from the table near the cooking woman, if you do this you'll get some comments.

If you talk to the four guys in the west room you'll find out that Ark is a bad boy, for he smashed all the pumpkins in the garden and caused trouble over at the weaver's place. Anyway, go up and visit the Elder to get the game going. He tells you to apologize to the weavers for you bad behaviour and whether you like it or not you should do that right away. Choose "Apologize" (BTW. The input you give does make a difference in this game some times), so in order to save you some time you'd better take the politically correct answer in most cases. If you try to open the chests to the right you get some comments from the Elder telling you to keep those closed.

**Crysta**

Go outside and explore the town if you want to and you can view the

Crystal Blue bubbles floating in the sky around the town as well. You can

talk to various people and even the pumpkins that lie scattered. For the

moment the Magishop has no use to you as you don't have any money or

Magirocks to buy some rings. For the same reason the Item/Weapon Shop is of

no use to you either. The only thing that can be done is going to the

Weaver's place and apologize for your misdeeds. The cottage is located to

the north of the Elder's place.

**Weaver's**

Talk to the woman to the left of Elle and choose "Apologize" to get this

over with right away. The woman upstairs tells you that Elle is working on

something the Elder asked for, wonder what that could be... After the

apologies go back to the elder's place to tell him that your 'mission' was

successful.

**Elder's**

The four guys inside are trying to open the forbidden blue door, but to no

avail. They also tell you that the elder is out, here the game branches a

little in two different paths. You can opt to open the door for them, or

let them be and not participate in opening the door.

-> Let them open it themselves If you let them do it themselves the three of them will trigger an energy source sucking them into the door or so you are told by the fourth person. So Ark has to open that door anyway. You'll have to break the door open by throwing the three vases at it. Each vase will crack it a little bit more, until it is finally opened. Go downstairs to find the three men completely frozen. On the lowest level you'll find a light source (continue reading the part after the other option).

-> You open it for them You'll have to break the door open by throwing the three vases at it. Each vase will crack it a little bit more, until it is finally opened. When this is done you'll hear a voice calling for help. Then all four think of an excuse to flee and leave you behind with the opened door. Enter it, go down the stairs and you'll find a light source that asks for your help.

If you approach it the light source appears to be a box and when you touch it, it will tell you to open it with a calm soul. So touch it a second time to find out that you just opened the forbidden box of Pandora! A small pink floating ball appears. This little guy is Yomi; 'it' tells you that the old coot is afraid that anybody exploring the world inside the box and therefore kept it sealed away. Yomi says that from now on you can enter the Pandora's box with 'Select' at any time.

**Pandora's Box**

**Hidden Items:** 2 (5)

Weapon (CrySpear), Clothes

Inside Yomi will introduce you to the various aspects and rooms of the box, which are pretty strait forward to understand. In the Weapons Screen you see a spark inside the top left square this is your first weapon, but you can only get it after you complete the tour. Examine the spark and it will speak to you, when it is done Ark gets a weapon in the shape of the CrySpear. Next Yomi will tell you that there are voices outside he warps you back outside again.

**Elder's**

Elle comes towards you, but after a short talk she turns into an icy

statue. Yomi informs you how to get her and the rest of the village back to

normal again. After that he disappears leaving Ark all by himself, enter

the Pandora's Box again and equip the CrySpear (weapon) and Clothes (armor)

right away so you won't forget it later. You can try to communicate with

Elle, but Ark soon realizes that he has to talk to the elder in order to

get some more information.

When you try to leave this place the Elder shows up and tells you about the trials of the Five Towers outside this village in order to return everybody back to normal... outside this village? Indeed, miraculously a new path has been created that allows you to go outside and explore the Underworld. You can visit him in his room and ask for more information or he can heal you, when you opt for "... I'm tired". You can open the two chests to the Elder's right from this moment on.
