<a id="s7-2-3"></a>

### 7.2.3. Zue's prayer to the rain

**Safarium**

The gull notices that there used to many animals around this place, but

now they are all gone. You probably guessed it already. Ark needs to

recover all the animal life on this planet as well.

**Zue**

**Chests:** 10 (51)

M.Bulb(2x), P.Cure(2x), DEF Potion, Sticker, S.Bulb, 65 Gems, Life Potion,

Luck Potion

**Magirocks:** 3 (28)

-Area to the left of the 2nd Altar

-Lower Right corner near Douma holding Soul #3 of the third set

(Must get before enter the third Altar)

-Far south of the third Altar

Monsters:

Bee, Demi Basilisk, Douma, Dungun, Lizard Man

Boss:

Storm Master

There are several little bushes scattered throughout Zue, if you pick one up it might reveal a bee which will attack you. It doesn't have much HP, but this can be quite a nuisance all the same. From time to time the weather changes from rain to sunny as well. The only effect of this is that the Dungun will explode violently, when it is sunny. If it is raining then the Dungun just evaporates like a regular enemy.

At the entrance fall down to the lower section on the right, climb up to the next screen and collect a P.Cure & M.Bulb from the chests next to the Venus Fly Plant. Go back to the start again and head left, crawl through the overgrowth towards the north, take the higher of the two entrances to the right and Ark will reach a dried out part of Zue here.

Go up another screen and kill the Dungun on the right to free the first Wandering Soul who will head for the Rainfall Altar. Go up one screen, then right and to the far right you can find another soul to be freed inside the Lizard Man. One screen down from here a Dungun holds the third soul hostage. Backtrack three screens and go down the wall to kill the first Douma you meet in order to free the fourth and last Spirit. Go to the left and crawl to the passage here to find the first Altar. Inside Altar 1 view the prayer and go outside to see all the withered land return to the normal grassland it once was. Ark also figures out why the animals haven't returned yet. They need grass as food to survive, if he can fully restore Zue they surely come back again.

You can collect the DEF Potion from the chest just below the Altar. Go back to the part where you saved the soul from the Lizard Man. You should be able to get past the gap behind him, which was previously impossible to obtain the Sticker and an M.Bulb.

1. Go down here and enter the water to reach a new area to the right (go up here to find a lone chest with a P.Cure).
2. Obliterate the two black rocks with the RocSpear, because the Sticker can't take them out.
3. Reequip the Sticker if you like and kill the Dungun here to free Soul #1 of the second set.

Go right one screen and crawl to the back area to find a chest and two more Dunguns. The left one has Soul #2 as a hostage and the chest has an S.Bulb inside. Climb down to the lower area and observe the odd wall Ark comments about. Lure the Douma towards this area and make him use the 'Sharp Exhale' to break the wall (attack it once should be enough to make him use this attack). One of the two giant frogs has Soul #3. Hey, you are at the Altar already... We're missing one soul, right?

1. Go left near the Altar to find a Magirock guarded by a Lizard Man.
2. Take this goon out to free the last Spirit.
3. Enter the Altar for another partial revival of Zue.

1. Swim back one screen and push the wooden object into the water so you can reach the right area.
2. Get the 65 Gems & Life Potion from the chests.
3. Go down past the three Dunguns and take out the Demi Basilisk on the next screen to free Soul #1 of the third set.

To the south the right Douma holds another Soul captive. Even further to the south another Douma has Soul #3 in his belly waiting to be rescued. To the right here is another Magirock. Collect it now, because after the water level rises you won't be able to get it anymore!

<!-- MIXED -->

Go back to the two wooden logs and swim to the south here to find three enemies. As expect one of them holds the fourth spirit. Enter the third Altar to fully revive the green lands. Outside again, let Ark swim to the left to find a Magirock. If you go back you'll notice that the wooden log in the water is gone here. Swim past it to get back to the entrance of Zue to get another chest containing your very first Luck Potion. Your final task is entering a fourth shrine, but this lucid temple so beware. Its location is just above that of the second Magirock (the Douma that held the 3rd spirit of the third set captive). Enter it to see some weird creatures worshiping another strange creature. I dunno what they are doing, but it is time for a boss battle!

**Boss:** Storm Master

Storm Master

**HP:** 150 · **Exp:** 300

**Gems:** -

**Aerial Storm Master — HP:** 100 · **Exp:** — · **Gems:** —

Initially the pagan god known as Storm Master appears and attacks you with his scythes by scratching and throwing them at you or spreading green unholy flames in the ring. The best way to avoid the flames is standing in the back area for he will not throw any flames there. As with most boss battles Magirocks aren't allowed to be used. When you attack Storm Master and he will use a defensive position so you can't use the Rushing technique on him. Instead back off some steps and he'll take his vulnerable pose again. After doing at least 150 damage the God crumbles and you receive some Exp., but after a few moments he revives and has become airborne as well!

In the next phase he throws some rocks at you and uses the fire breath again. Lure him out by standing in the rear area and as soon as he gets in range use the Spinner to get some damage on him. It may take some time, but eventually he'll come down towards you. Deal 100 points of damage to take the Storm Master out once and for all. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- After the battle you can witness the return of all the land animals on this planet (excluding the race of our good old friend the Homo Sapiens, that is).
