<a id="s7-2"></a>
## 7.2. Resurrection of the World

<a id="s7-2-1"></a>

### 7.2.1. Save the Ra Tree

**Portal**

After regaining consciousness on the planet's surface you notice how stale

and cold the environment is. Nothing can live on it as it currently is. The

hole to the underworld appears to have tightened up to a small crevice

which will only open up near the very end of the game, but that is still a

long way to go. Yomi appears and gives you some more guidelines, after that

it is time to get moving. On the red World Map you can travel to the far

south in order to meet a Wander Soul. In the center of the Amazon area

you'll find a location called Evegreen.

**Amazon - Ruins area**

**Magirocks:** 1 (12)

-in plain sight

The Soul here sells you the Fire and Zap Magic Rings and you can also find a Magirock behind him.

**Evegreen**

At the entrance you'll hear a voice called out your name. Go up and you a

big tree trunk with a crack in it. This is the trunk of the Great Ra Tree,

who is poisoned by a parasite located deep within him. The Ra Tree was

waiting for a very long time on your arrival so Ark can take out the

parasite within him. To the left of the trunk there is a Merchant Soul as

well.

**Ra Tree**

**Hidden Items:** 2 (16)

Big Leaves - Left bottom floor from the plant on the surface's water

Ra Dewdrop - Right bottom floor after getting the Big Leaves

Chests (Abbeys): 14 (30)

42 Gems, LeafSuit, Life Potion, M.Bulb (4x), P.Cure(3x), S.Bulb(3x),

Ra Spear

**Magirock:** 2 (14)

-Left bottom floor; swim to the lower left corner to get it

-Right bottom floor; behind the rightmost waterfall

Monsters:

Abbey, Dingal, Gall Fish, Purple Amarante, Yellow Amarante

Boss:

Parasite

This cave has 8 basements floors so we'll be switching floors very often, if you ever get lost just check the Map inside Pandora's Box for information. Inside the first room you can save if you like or just continue on down the stairs.

On the B1F floor go down one floor, then right to get an S.Bulb from the Abbey. The other Abbey reached by jumping on the elevated section contains a Ra Spear (which is stronger than the CrySpear or HexRod so equip it). On the far right is the entrance to the Parasite's room, but you cannot survive the toxic fumes here so you'll have to come back here later. Before going up get the M.Bulb from the Abbey next to it. Back on the B1F and collect the P.Cure, 42 Gems, S.Bulb and an M.Bulb (2x) from the brown Abbeys scattered on this floor by walking around this level counter clockwise. Work your way to the bottom following the left route and kill the Yellor Amarante to free Soul for a hint.

Continue on to the right here and at the dead end throw some of the small pebbles into the water to kill both Gall Fish. The moment they are exterminated a bridge is formed so you can reach the room behind it. Fall down the gap here and get yet another S.Bulb from the Abbey on your left and the P.Cure on the right. Go down the stairs to reach B3F.

On this floor there are two paths one leading west and one leading south. Take the west path, because the southern branch leads to a dead end with some enemies. Take out the red Abbeys by lifting them up, follow the path and stairs behind it. On B4F Ark can obtain some P.Cure, Life Potion & an M.Bulb from the clustered Abbeys. Go south, climb on the elevated section, go past the 3 Dignals, lift some more Red Abbeys and push a rock to reach B5F.

Work your way around here and kill the pink Amarante to free a Wander Soul who tells you to follow him. Do so and climb down (or press 'B' while descending the wall to get down very quickly). On the bottom floor Ark can talk to the Lily for some information. The plant in the water to the left holds the Big Leaves. If you get these you automatically learn the ability to swim in water (collect the Magirock here). Climb all the way back up again, go back another room and take the upper passage we just skipped earlier on.

<!-- MIXED -->

In the room behind the passage you can now reach the other side by swimming to the bottom part. Descend several layers until you reach another pond hidden deep within the tree. Talk to the flower to get some Ra Dewdrop, equip and use it so you'll become immune to the poisonous gas of the Parasite. To the right you can claim a LeafSuit from the Abbey (it protects against poison). Finally you can get a Magirock on the far right, which is cleverly hidden behind a blue waterfall. You can climb up here for a shortcut back to B3F. Go north here, up the stairs and enter the Parasite Room in the top right corner. If you took the Ra Dewdrop you can start the battle against the Parasite.

**Boss:** Parasite

Main body

**HP:** 110

Exp: ?

**HP:** 1 · **Exp:** 11 · **Gems:** -

Mini Claw

The initial part of this battle has a blue worm and some Mini Claws appearing from the holes around the room. The blue worm is impervious so don't waste time on it. Instead strike the claws, if you hit them enough the Parasite will give some comments and the next phase starts.

The blue worm will move through horizontally as the actual Parasite at the top readies to attack you with a vertical rush. The moment he opens his eye he is vulnerable. After two of these attacks the Parasite spawns some more Mini Claws that have a huge amount of Exp for such a wimpy amount of HP so hit them good. When you take all six out this part of the battle keeps on repeating itself, until you finished the wormy Parasite once and for all. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- A voice will speak down to you congratulating you on your victory. You get to see a small animation of the growth of the small plant called Horsetail and the world turning green once again. When you've seen all of this the scene returns to Evegreen.

**Evegreen - Recovered**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (31)

GrassPin

**Magirock:** 4 (18)

-You get 4 of these along with the GrassPin

The Ra Tree who has been fully restored to life again as well as all the plant life this planet knows. You are allowed to summon him via the GrassPin (which he gives you one of). Buy the Ra Armor from the plant Merchant in case you can spend the money. Ark's duty is done here, but he can talk to the plants, one of them called Amaryllis will even sing a song for Ark. Most of the other flowers will mention birds that once visited them in the old days. So indeed we have to set out and bring the birds back to life.
