<a id="s7-2-5"></a>

### 7.2.5. The essence of humans buried in Eklamata

**Indus R**

Here at the Indus River the rhinos form a bridge allowing Ark to reach the

other side of the river. You can buy a Fur Coat for some better protection.

On the world map to the east of the Indus River there is only one

interesting location near Tibet. It's called Eklamata and this is also the

place of the final event of this chapter.

**Eklamata**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (53)

Snowgrass Leaf - Get it from the Snowgrass plant

**Chests:** 6 (59)

Ice Suit, FirePike, Stardew (2x), Life Potion, 99 Gems

**Magirocks:** 4 (32)

-At the start go to the far left to find it near a flower

-After passing the river on the upper ledge to the left

-From the previous rock take the upper right exit, then enter the cavern

-Just before falling into the dark pit, it is in plain sight

Monsters:

Ice Whirl, Mini Slime, Quaker, Rakshaki, Sabrewolf, Slime, Yeti

Boss:

Dark Morph

1. Walk around this area, take out some of the Sabrewolfs from some Exp and go to the lower left corner for a Magirock.
2. Go to the north and take care of the Ice Whirls that pop up from under the snow to reach a huge wall.
3. Climb to the top and beware of the Ice Whirl that appears here, because you will fall back to the bottom if you get hit before you reach the top.
4. Go right, climb down and ascend the wall to the right side of the screen.

In the next area you'll find a Yeti nursing his wounds in a warm pool. Yomi comes out and gives you some hint about what to do next. Enter the cave to the right to find some Rakshakis who attack you with their tridents and their attack can cause confusion on Ark so take care not to get hit by them. Work your way around this area, take out the little peddles near the upper left slide and climb up the vine in the lower right corner. Next go down (actually you move upwards) the slide I just mentioned to find a chest with an Ice Suit in it. Go back down and ascend to the higher level again, but this fall down the vine on the left to find a chest with the FirePike in the hidden area. Head back again, climb up for the third time and slide down the right slide to open the passage to the next floor.

Go past the 2 Ice Whirl and Slimes to find a Snowgrass plant outside the cavern. It will give you the Snowgrass Leaf. Backtrack all the way to the Yeti in the pool and use the Leaf on it (equip it with 'X' first). The Yeti will turn red and thanks you for healing him in broken English. He will move to the top screen and help you reach the other side of the river by tossing you over it. The friend of the Yeti on the other side will also throw you back if you want to return to the first area.

To the north you will find a lone Sabrewolf and a chest. Look carefully near the bottom of the screen near the tips of the trees to see a small edge that allows you to reach it with a Stardew as a prize. Climb up to the top area and get the Magirock to the left. From here you can reach a third Magirock by going up the right ledge first and entering the cavern in the next area. Go back again and climb up the left ledge, enter the cavern here too to trigger an avalanche outside. No matter how fast you are you cannot reach the safe cavern (even if you do, you can't enter it)...

**Ice Cavern**

After some time you'll wake up and meet a wild mountain goat who is also

trapped in here. She will show you another goat that was her husband and

sadly died in the avalanche. After a few seconds the screen starts to fade

out to prelude the night. You can answer to the questions as you like there

actually may be some hidden wisdom in the reply. The next morning the both

of you are hungry, she tells you to eat something and walks towards her

husband. An ethical problem arises for Ark, because he seems to be

incapable of eating the goat's husband.

Next the Mountain Goat tells you that she discovered a thin part in the ice and after a few attempts she manages to break her way through it. Unfortunately for the goat the next room has a solid ice wall that cannot be traversed by her, but Ark can climb to safety with the Sharp claws he obtained from the Perinton's nest. She tells you that she will get out one way or another, but I have found out that after the humans get revived the Mountain Goat will be dead lying next to her husband...

**Eklamata**

Go back up to the area with the cave where you caused the avalanche.

You'll notice that the snow has drastically changed the looks of the area,

so collect the Life Potion from the chest that was previously inaccessible.

For the rest this place is a dead end so go back to visit the Yeti again.

Hey, he's gone and the water has turned to ice now allowing you to walk

over it. Follow the path to reach another ice cave.

<!-- MIXED -->

Inside you get 99 Gems on the left and a Stardew from the chest on the right. Follow the lower path to reach the outdoors again. A Magirock is out here just for you. Continue on and fall into the pit here as it is your only way open to you. Follow the only path to get outside again. To the left are two vines one going up and one down. Don't take the lower one as it is a one-way trip back to the start of this area, instead go up to meet a shape shifting boss.

**Boss:** Dark Morph

Morph - Yeti Form

**HP:** N/A · **Exp:** 0

Gems: -

**HP:** 150 · **Exp:** 350 · **Gems:** -

Morph - Cadet Form

**HP:** 200 · **Exp:** 350 · **Gems:** -

Morph - Dark Bats Form

**different phases and shifts through them at will:** Yeti, Cadet & Dark Bats.

The battle against this adversary can be a long one. He has three I'll describe each one of them in the following paragraphs.

-Yeti- He throws about 12 dangerous rocks in the arena and moves in-place so the wind will push Ark against the rocks causing damage on him. Try to get to one of the corners and run against it so the chance of getting hit is decreased to a minimum. After some time it will change into the next form.

-Cadet- Throw his projectiles back at him to cause some damage. Just stand still and wait for the Cadet to throw an orb. Start Rushing to reflect it back at him, that's all there is to it.

-Dark Bats- The final part of this battle is against Dark Morph himself. As Dark Morph warps through the place try to hit him with the Spear. If you connect a hit he splits up in several bats (which are invulnerable). Try to avoid them by running & jumping around in a big circular shape to avoid as much damage as possible. In the end they merge together and he starts warping again. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- At the end of the battle a voice will tell Ark what will happen next. The human race will be revived. But as the voice says the world must still be lead by Ark's guidelines, because humans are not aware of the power they wield which is called "Technology". The last real resurrection takes place as humans appear on the world.
