<a id="s7-2-2"></a>

### 7.2.2. Revival of birds at the Grecliff

**Guiana**

To the northwest of South America you'll find a rocky mountain area called

Guiana. Now that the plants have returned to life you can climb the vines

on the wall to get past this cliff and to the North American continent.

**Forest Area - SE part of North America**

**Chests:** 2 (33)

378 Gems, M.Bulb

There is a single square of trees near the bottom right corner of the part of America that can currently be reached. Here you can find two chests with some Gems and an M.Bulb inside.

**Sanctuar**

The plant around here describes the original state of this stronghold of

the birds. He tells you to go the northern stone rock in order to save

them. You can also buy some items and Magic Rings here.

**Grecliff**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (34)

Sharp Claws - In Perinton's nest

**Chests:** 6 (40)

STR Potion, RocSpear, S.Bulb, M.Bulb, 87 Gems, Life Potion

**Magirocks:** 5 (23)

-The most upper right entrance of the cliff

-The first slide, use the vine to the left here to get it easily

-North West corner of the room filled with Mini Quakers

-After getting the Sharp Claws climb to the area with Borfe and chest

with 87 Gems

-Near the previous rock go down the slide and keep right pressed

Monsters:

Borfe, Mini Quaker, Mud Man, Quaker, Perinton, Stone Golem

Boss:

Dark Twins

Enter the cliff at the first screen and go through the first room defeating some of the Stone Golems for some good Exp. In the next room move the boulder out of your way and pick up one (or both) of the pebbles hidden just above a second boulder. If you touch this boulder it will start moving and reveal another Golem. Take it out and head outside via the lower passage.

There are some Mud Man around here, these adversaries can be quite annoying. They are impervious to regular attacks so use the Slider to take them out.

1. Climb up the vine and enter the cliff again for a STR Potion in a chest.
2. Go outside again and reenter via the rightmost entrance.
3. Go up the stairs in the back of the interior chamber and take out the 3 Perintons so you can ascend the next stairs with relative ease to 4F.

Watch out for the Quaker that drops down around here. His mighty tremor immobilizes you for three seconds leaving you open to any attacks from the nearby Golem. After disposing of them climb up to the highest level and choose either left branch or the passage to the right. I suggest to the take the left path first in order to get the RocSpear.

1. Follow this path (there is only one route) and you'll find a dead end with a chest and two grey boulders.
2. Touch them for a battle and when they are gone Ark can get the black boulder cleaving RocSpear.
3. Equip this spear and you can take out the dark rock that drops down.
4. Go back to the branch where we left of and enter that doorway.

Go south from here, jump over the cliffs, head outside and follow the only route to another entrance of the Grecliff. Don't forget to collect the Magirock here. Inside take out the black rocks with the RocSpear and follow the path until you reach silly little acrobat men. These guys are called Borfe and they can be quite a pain if you don't take care. Climb down the lower left vine here and collect the Magirock before going down the center vine. Inside there is a very quick slide so press and hold left to get to the exit with an S.bulb.

Fall down the gap here as well (there is only one direction here). At the end follow the path to the left and enter the left part of the Grecliff. Inside you will find some Mini Quaker that can be killed if you use a Slider Attack on them, but that may be hard at some times. There's a Magirock here as well. Anyway go down the stairs and use the Slider attack in the next room to take out the Quakers here, before they get the chance to cause a Tremor. If they do this the platforms will collapses meaning that you have to redo this part.

Outside you will be welcomed by a committee of four Perintons who guard the nest. If you examine the flashing dot you receive the Sharp Claws for free. With these claws you can climb the dotted walls, similar to the wall to your right. At the top is a chest with an M.Bulb inside. Go back down all the way down and go to the right cliff area again. Climb up the very long wall here and you can go two directions here: Inside the rock or down to the left. You already visited that area, but now you can collect an M.Bulb using the Sharp Claws.

<!-- MIXED -->

Inside the rock as mentioned just a moment ago there is just a simple path to follow, outside climb the left wall to collect 87 Gems and a Magirock. Enter the sliding area to the right and keep right pressed so you will land on a high ledge with another Magirock. Fall down and ward of the silly Borfe go left here to eventually reach a chest containing Life Potion. Back at Borfe section go right and climb up the left wall to reach the boss arena at the very top of the mountain range. This is quite an annoying battle, because the boss can drop you of the arena forcing you to redo the entire battle!

**Boss:** Dark Twins

**HP:** 80 · **Exp:** 500

Immediately when the battle starts the green chicken sends three projectiles at you that have to be deflected with the X-Guard. Next use Spinner attack on him to do any damage at all. The bird's other attack is creating a twister that blows you off the platform, but you can easily prevent this from happening by attacking the bird when he performs this attack.

When you do sufficient damage the bird will call for help and summons his evil twin. The only thing that the second bird does is using some of his dropping to attack you. Ark should be able to avoid them without too much trouble. If you manage to destroy the green bird then the brown one is automatically defeated as well. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Again you get to see a nice animated cinema (at least for SNES standards it is pretty good) of a hatching bird. At last the birds roam the skies of the world again. You will be transported to the Sanctuar, which has changed to a true sanctuary.

**Sanctuar**

The birds around this region tell you of the wind that does not come.

Apparently the birds require a signal from Windvale in order to start

flying. They also mention the King Bird's nest at the top of the cliff. So

go there right now.

**KingNest**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (41)

WindPin - Get from King Bird after resurrecting the wind from Windvale

**Magirocks:** 2 (25)

-You get 2 rocks along with the Wind Pin

At the top you'll meet the king of the King Birds himself. He explains why the birds aren't flying yet. They need a call from the wind, which has not come this year. The call always came from Windvale, so it seems that something went wrong there. Talk to one of the three gulls below the King Bird's nest to get a free ticket to Windvale.

**Windvale**

Inside the cavern throw all three rocks into the pit with those little

sparkles. A voice will then speak to you thanking you for awakening him. He

gets to work and the wind is initiated allowing the birds to roam freely

over the world.

**KingNest**

Speak to King Bird now to receive your first WindPin for free. The three

gulls can take you to three different locations now.

**Left:** Safarium - Africa · **Center:** Island of Kamiyo - Japan · **Right:** Windvale

The center and right gulls are of no use to you. Take the left gull and head for the Safarium. In a later stage you may want to use the bird to Kamiyo, but now is not the time for that.
