<a id="s7-2-4"></a>

### 7.2.4. Leim's voyage through a canyon

**Zue**

Back in Zue you'll get to hear from the Gull that you can visit Neo the

king of lions in the Lion Den to the north. Talk to the monkey called Tera

to the right for an interesting theory. Go up one screen and Ark will be

welcomed by some red lion eyes. Next Neo shows up and tells the other lions

to back off as he grants Ark permission to enter the den. Talk to some of

the lions and the wife of Neo to find out that their son Leim has been send

to the Canyon to prove his worthiness as successor to Neo's title. You'd

better go there right away.

**Canyon**

Monsters:

Mud Man, Perinton, Red Whisp

Boss:

Mud Man

Talk to the cacti and owl for some information or just drop into the canyon right away. On the next screen you'll find Leim near some Perinton that attack you, when you get near. Talk to Leim and Ark will tag along watching how Leim progresses through his test. From here on always wait for Leim, until he reaches the exit. If you pass without him you will have to do the last screen over again, until Leim reach the end. Directions are easy as Leim just shows you the only route.

Follow him and push the boulder in order for both of you to reach the heightened platform. On the next screen talk to him on the right side of the area to get going, take out the monster and reach out for the next area. Here Leim will make a mistake in the maze so talk to him to make him backtrack. At the fork choose the right path to reach the exit. Don't worry if you told him the wrong path, because Leim will backtrack automatically at the dead end. Talk to him at the top to trigger the next scene.

<!-- MIXED -->

Here Ark has to take out several Perintons after Leim follows you for some comments. To the right is the tricky stone bridge area that can make your life a difficult if you don't walk synchronously with Leim. The two of you need to reach the other side, but if you run to the right the bridge collapses and you have to start over again. Just walk staying as close to the lion cub as possible. The last obstacle to overcome is the big wall. Leim wants to see who can reach the top first and even gives Ark a head start, but Ark's climbing ability is so slow that you can never win from Leim. In the final area Leim senses a bad guy and he is quite correct about that. Fall down the area and meet the Mud Doll.

**Boss:** Mud Doll

**HP:** 100 · **Exp:** 0

Gems: -

This enemy is out of reach so you'll have to wait, until Leim brings you a rock (the first rock is already waiting for you to be grabbed). Lift it and throw it against the Mud Doll, while running to cause some damage. The Mud Dolls attack are easy to X-guard so he shouldn't be too difficult. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- When he is defeated the Mud Doll tries to be friendly and lead you to the exit. But the moment you step on it you fall into his trap and you'll be send to a desolate ledge of the cliff. Leim comes in and takes out the Mud Doll by himself (off-screen). After the fierce battle Leim obtains a strange shining Starstone and sends down a gull to rescue you.

**Safarium - Lion's Den**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (52)

Neo's Fang - Get from Neo after saving Leim

Talk to the Lion King and you'll get Neo's Fang spear as a reward for saving their cub Leim. Equip it right away and head to the Indus River to the east on the world map, for our last task in reviving the world; resurrection of humankind.
