<a id="s7-3-3"></a>

### 7.3.3. The future of Loire Optional

**Loire - Inn**

The woman behind the counter tells you that the king died, because he was

murdered. Meilin doesn't want to get up so you'd better leave her be.

Outside Dr. Keinz will tell you that now the king is gone this town may be

able to grow and flourish.

If you walk up to Jean at the center of town he announces his candidacy for as being representative for the people of Loire, but Louis also declares the same so a voting election is held to determine by democracy who of the two will lead Loire. Talk to both people to pick your man and Dr. Keinz for the best pick. Keinz tells you that in order for the town to grow the progressive Jean is the best option, whereas under the reign of the conservative Louis everything remains the same.

Enter a home or go to the world map, then reenter Loire and you'll see several people putting votes in the ballot in front of the message boards. Ark is allowed to vote as well and of course his vote will make the difference! So the player may decide what will become of Loire. If you wish to make Loire a prospering town (and with that several other towns in the world) you must definitely vote for Jean, if you do not vote for him then the town will never be able to expand. After the voting go up to the center again and you get to hear that the votes will be counted. Again reenter Loire and Jean will announce the result. Both Jean & Louis have 24 votes, plus the additional vote of Ark makes the difference. Whoever you voted for wins! If Louis wins then that's all we can do around here. If Jean wins he asks Louis to help him with the hard task of governing the town. Loire's Growth Index raises by 20%.

Enter the world map and go to another area. If you get back on the world map Loire should have made its first expansion out of two! Reenter Loire to find it completely rebuild and you can also get additional items here.

**Loire (2)**

**Hidden Items:** 4 (84)

Matis's Painting - Get from Matis if you choose to help him out

Camera           - Get from Pierre after playing gunny pig three times

Fancy Clothes    - Get from Marily if you help her out

Wine             - Receive from the winery's boss

Most of the original residents have moved to different locations. Also Loire now consists of two Avenues. There is MUCH to do around here so I go through it step by step.

-Matis the Painter- To the far left of town's entrance is Matis' new residence. Help him out with spreading his art by taking one of his paintings with you.

-Pierre the Tinkerer- To the right of his home is Pierre tinkering with machines. He's inventing a new machine that allows one to make instant pictures. It's called a camera. The first time he tries it out on Ark he gets electrocuted, the second time he is toasted and the third time it works! You get one of his cameras for free for your effort. Equip the camera and take scenes of Loire right away by using it anywhere on map of Loire. You may require these later on.

-Item / Weapon / Magishop- You can buy various new and more powerful items here. Don't buy the Icepick and VestArmr for we will get these in the upcoming castle from two chests, so that would be a waste of gems. The Magishop next door also sells about all the rings you've seen up to now. You may want to buy a FireRing or two for the upcoming boss battle in Sylvain Castle for it is the hardest boss battle in the game (in relative terms).

-Mme. Papilo's weavers- In the backroom of Mme. Papilo's shop you can find Marily who wants to get freed fro her master... Ehmm.. Mistress. Talk to her and help her by selling the Fancy Clothes.

-Winery- The boss of the Wine Shop asks you to sell it somewhere so he gets to know whether his wine is good enough to be sold in mass volume. So he first asks you to try out several mixes. The first two taste horrible, but the third is great. Talk to the boss again to receive a bottle of wine.

There that is all we can do for Loire. We need to trade the items with people in different towns to raise this town to expansion level 3, which makes it even bigger. On with the story, Ark can pass the tollgate for free after the King dies so he can reach Litz pretty easily.

**Loire Castle - Reopened**

**Magirocks:** 1 (51)

Win the eating contest

After completing all events in Loire and Sylvain the castle of Loire reopens for a speed eating contest. Before starting the contest throw all the pots in the top right corner to open the path to a hidden bread in the back. Make sure you eat it during the contest as it gives you 3 points and I can guarantee you that this item does not hold bad medicine. In the upper left corner there is another item worth 3 points. All the others are worth 1 point. You need to eat more than 20 points in order to receive the Magirock from the guy here.

**Poultry - Denmark (World Map)**

There is a hidden area where Denmark would be if you think of the world

map, if Loire is expanded at least once! Enter it to find an area with some

chicken. It turns out that the guy got subsidy from Loire to raise some

chickens here. If Loire reaches level 3, then you can compete in the

chicken races. At the chicken races you can choose one of the feathered

friend and gamble on it to win your earnings back, if you are lucky.
