<a id="s7-3-11"></a>

### 7.3.11. Find and present the 5 Starstones

**'Edge of life and death'**

Ark is lying to die on the ground and the Elder appears to tell him that

his task if fulfilled by bringing Beruga back to life. Ark may now die in

peace. Ark however realizes that he doesn't know whether his has completed

his task and asks anybody to comply this. After a few moments Kumari's

voice is heard and he tells you not to die as he tries to save you from the

dreaded place.

**Lhasa**

You wake up in Lhasa once again Meihou meets you again. He tells you a Star

of darkness emerged and eradicated Neotokio. Go up to Kumari and he tells

you your next task. You need to find the 5 Starstones and present them at

the Hero's grave at the end of the world.

**'any big city'**

Visit the fortune teller and he'll tell you where to find the five

Starstones in a cryptic message: "What you seek are in a dream, sand, ice,

mountain and ruins.". So I'll go through all five stones by this reference.

BTW Nirlake has been burned down, so you can complete the optional side

quest of rebuilding it. See section 2 of the fourth chapter below.

Dream - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Take out your boat and go to South America. Dock at the west side and enter the miniature shrine to the north.

**Astarica**

**Chests:** 2 (148)

HolySuit, Starstone

**Magirocks:** 1 (83)

-On you path in plain sight in the corridor with Pupilas

Monsters:

Dark Chakra, Pupila

Examine the goblet and you'll hear a strange voice in your head. Drink from the goblet to enter the dream world called Astarica. The people here observe the progress of the humans. You meet very familiar faces, but they are not the people you know. Talk to Meila and you will hear the current situation. Go up and push the statue with the red jewel to enter a hidden path.

In the back room push both statues to the back and place each one on the pedestals to the left and right. This opens a new path, follow it, open the chest for a HolySuit and further on you'll find another one of those Magirocks. On the next screen three look-a-likes show you the ritual that is held every 100 years. After this scene drink the goblet to return to the real world, but now a chest has appeared. Open it for the Starstone.

Sand - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - This one is located in the desert of the Sahara so go to Africa. There is hidden area on the northeast of the Sahara on the worldmap.

**Sahara**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (149)

Starstone - examine the collapsed skeleton

Walk up here and you'll find a dead man's skeleton. Ark intelligently notices that this person must have collapsed. You take the Starstone he had with him. Apparently, this guy stole the Starstone that was in Leim's possession and dies here. As Yomi says humans go anywhere if they smell money.

Ice - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Use the Stopover in South America to reach Greenland. From here you can go to Penginea. As mentioned earlier in the FAQ use the Pretty flower on the penguin to get a Starstone in return.

Mountain - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - The mountain Starstone belongs to the man watching out from Airsrock to watch out for the light of the apocalypse in Australia.

**Airsrock**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (150)

Starstone - Talk to the 'Apocalypse' scientist

Climb up the right vine and then use the Sharp Claws to get to the top. The man here tells you that he is a scientist. Listen to his story and you'll get the Starstone form him.

Ruins - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

**Neotokio - Ghost Town**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (151)

Transceiver - Find in the police office drawer

What place could be a better ruin that Neotokio now that Asmodeus struck it. Go there and find the transceiver in the Police office. Go down the city and the door to the sewers has mysteriously opened.

**Sewer**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (152)

Starstone - Receive it from the only survivor of the Asmodeus genocide

**Chests:** 5 (157)

Sewer Key, H.Water, Luck Potion, Fauchard, KingArmr

**Magirocks:** 2 (85)

-Pond area near the exit

-Two areas behind it in the top right corner

Monsters:

Bit, Chariot, Goblin (B), Green Slime, Mini Green Slime, Phantom, Robber

The monsters here are pretty mean so take care. The Phantom can induce the Death Status on you so wear the SoulArmr from Beruga's Lab. Robbers can steal you Gems so don't get hit by those either.

1. Follow the path around and at the end you'll hear the girl again through the Transceiver.
2. Crawl to the back and Ark will find a Sewer Key here.
3. Go back to the first room with the locked door and head up.

The girl appears, but so does a lion. A lion here how is that possible? The chest to the right contains some H.Water.

Up in the pond area take the second tight passage to the left to find a Luck Potion. Also there is a Fauchard in the upper right corner of this field. Follow the path to the left, then go down and just before exiting this area pick up the Magirock. The second area after this has some Chariots that are pretty strong on the medium levels, but you can take them out. Behind the right one is a Magirock. The right one guards the KingArmr. In the room behind this you'll finally meet up with the girl and lion. Talk to the lion to find out that it is Leim. You get the Starstone from the soul survivor of the Asmodeus disaster in Neotokio. Next Freedom makes contact with you and you get transported out of this area. You might as well use the BonePin for a quick exit.

**grave at the end of the world:** Dryvale which is located on the southern

Now that you have all five of them you can present them to the Hero's part of Antarctica.

**Dryvale**

Equip the Starstones and use them with 'X' to hold each in front of the

giant skull altars. After the fifth one is placed a wandering soul appears

at the top of the screen. A voice tells him that he is the legendary hero

and the soul turns into a shadow that is identical to Ark's silhouette. He

tells (actually, you tell yourself) a story in which Dr. Beruga is

responsible for the unbalance of the earth. The shadow turns into a soul

again and merges itself with Ark.
