<a id="s7-3-8"></a>

### 7.3.8. Exploring the entire world by boat Optional

**South Pole Cavern**

**Chests:** 2 (116)

Life Potion, Sea Mail

Go to Antarctica and find the cavern at the bottom. Enter it, climb up the vine, jump over the gap, ascend the stairs and collect the Life Potion and the Sea Mail. This armor is the strongest we can get up till Mosque so make sure to equip it. The Sea Mail is the second of the four special armors!

**Mu**

**Chests:** 2 (118)

DEF Potion, EnbuPike

If you resurrected Mu in the Underworld an island will appear between Australia and South-America. Go there and you can get two items here: DEF Potion and EnbuPike. The EnbuPike is your first special weapon and it changes some of your defense to strength making this weapon even stronger than the 44 points of attack power by itself.

**Polynese**

To the north of Mu is Polynese. This is actually a very small island where

nothing can be done. The woman at the top asks whether you would like to

take a sun bath. If you do so your so-called Macho Appeal statistic goes up

by 10. The guy gives you a very wise comment, so hear it out if you like.

**Ruins area - Alaska**

**Chests:** 1 (119)

STR Potion

Go to Alaska and dock your boat here. Walk around the forest to the east and Ark discovers a hidden Ruins area on the gap tile with no trees. You can find a STR Potion here and that's all folks. On the west coast of Alaska is a Stop over, but we can get to Australia by boat so we don't need it. Also the lone guy living to the north here tells you about the flying patterns of the birds.

**New Zealand**

**Magirocks:** 1 (70)

-See below

Marked as NZ on the map, you can dock by your ship on the lower island. Walk around here to find a hidden area with a Magirock in the top right corner.

**Hidden area - South Australia**

**Chests:** 1 (120)

892 Gems

Just after docking your boat there should be a hidden area very close by. Plunge in the water and get the 892 Gems treasure from the chest at the other side.

**Hidden area - West Australia**

**Chests:** 2 (122)

Life Potion, 228 Gems

Another secret area with two very long vines can be found on the west part of this big island. Climb the right vine to get to a chest with Life Potion and another one with 228 Gems inside. If you climb up the left vine you get stuck just before reaching the top (evil programmers!).

**Suncoast (1)**

Inn:

5 Gems

**Hidden Items:** 1 (123)

Tasty Meat - Get from the Beef guy in the back of town

-Scenery shots with the Camera- The fourth and final expandable town is found in Australia, where you should be right now. Enter town and equip the camera and take some snapshots. Next go to the tourism center and show them the photos of all the locations you've been to so far. -Beef Man- Talk to the guy in the lonely home in the back area of town to find out that he's trying to promote some of his meat. He gives you a sample of Tasty Meat so somebody can try it out.

-Airplane plans- After you save Will from the Great Lake Caverns you get the plans of a new airplane flight path. Go to the old guy here in Suncoast and give him the plans. When Suncoast expands you can get the Magirock from his home (it is currently only on display on top of the shelf). Also a third landing spot for your airplane is created, when that happens.

**Hidden Area - South Indonesia**

**Chests:** 2 (125)

Luck Potion, 1403 Gems

To the northwest of Australia is a hidden area on the lower of the two accessible island. Swim around here to find a Luck Potion and 1403 Gems from the chests.

**Hidden Area - Center Indonesia**

**Chests:** 2 (127)

Speed Shoes, 378 Gems

Little to the north is a second accessible area in Indonesia. Walk around this island as well to find an area with the Speed Shoes and 378 Gems within the two chests.

**Caravan - West Africa**

Enter the oasis and you talk to the guys around here to be able to buy

some stuff. Buy 1 Crystal at the price of 1,000 Gems, if you wish to expand

Litz. If you don't have enough money, visit the ruins to the north (see

below).

**Hidden ruins area - NW Africa**

**Chests:** 2 (129)

1003 Gems, 703 Gems

There is a small ruin in the northwest corner of Africa. If you enter it you can find two chests one at the bottom and one at the top of the screen. Both contain some Gems.

**Cave - North of Scandinavia**

**Magirocks:** 1 (71)

-See below

Just walk the tightrope to the far right to find a single Magirock around here.

**Rich's - Great Britain**

There is only one home here and it belongs to Rich the rich guy. Show him

the picture and he buys it for 1,000 Gems.

**Loire (3)**

Inn:

10 Gems

**Hidden Items:** 1 (130)

Apartment Key - Get it from Realtor in Rococo Apartment's store

If you completed all of the side quests in Loire it will expand to level 3, right about now. You should have Loire expanded to the maximum level if you followed all the instructions so far in this walkthrough (See appendix C for a summary if Loire did not expand).

-Tourism Center- Show the pictures of Litz, Freedom, Nirlake & Suncoast in order to make those towns expand at the Tourism center.

-Home Sweet Home- If you enter Rococo Apartment you'll notice that a door of apartment 101 is locked. This room is for sale at a reasonable price at Loire Realty to the right. Inside talk to Realtor to buy an apartment for 800 Gems, if you buy you get the key to your apartment. If you open it up you notice that the room is still empty. So go to Michelle's Furniture shop and buy some objects. The following things are in store:

Rug - 100 Gems Bookshelf - 100 Gems (comes with Teddy bear) Dresser - 100 Gems Bed - 100 Gems Desk - 100 Gems

After buying everything you can go to "Home" and enjoy your own apartment for a total of 1,300 Gems. If only it would be so simple in real life. You can go to bed here to regain your HP and there is a notebook to save your quest on the table.

**Litz**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (131)

Tinned Sardines - Give the Tin sheet to the sailor and he'll make this

-Pottery Craftsman- Give the Crystal you bought at the Caravan in Africa to the craftsman and he gets the idea for stained glass.

-Sardines in a can- If you collected the Tin Sheet from Will's home in Nirlake you can give it to the Fisherman in the lower left home. This way he can preserve the sardines in a can. He'll use the metal to give you a can of sardines in return.

If you did all of this the town's index should be 100%, so you'd expect the town to expand. However you need the Quatro's to move from their location in order to get the actual expansion! This can be done by rubbing the back of the tired dancing girl in one of their tent, but even then Litz is somehow difficult to expand. I noticed that the only times I got the town to level 2 was after the Starstone quest.

**Freedom**

Back in Freedom again, we can do a few extra things, before this town

expands to the highest level. This can however only happen after completing

the Great Lake Caverns (see the next chapter).

-Tourism Center- Show the woman behind the counter the scenes of Suncoast and any other towns if you didn't show them the photos before.

-Stoma's- Go to Stoma (in Japanese his name is just Stomach) and give him the grilled meat from Suncoast & the Tinned Sardines from Litz so he can test them. Both items are given a positive score. You get 100 Gems for each of the two items. Freedom doesn't expand right away, but it will after completing the Great Lake Caverns.

```
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Save Will from the Lake Cavern
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

**Great Lake Cave - Entrance**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (132)

HornPin - Get from Gossie

**Chests:** 5 (137)

Air Herb, Magic Anchor, 753 Gems, GeoStaff, DrgnArmr

**Magirocks:** 5 (76)

-Reachable after flooding the Douma room in plain sight

-Accompany HornPin (4x)

Monsters:

Douma, Gall Fish, Green Slime, Mini Green Slime, Pupal, Red Amarante

Boss:

Hitoderon (3x)

Give the Engagement Ring from Nana the Mermaid to Servas and he thanks you just before evaporating in thin air. You can now enter the Lake Cavern. Make sure that you have some Serums because the Doumas & red Amarantes in here can induce Deadly Poison on Ark which kills him in several seconds.

Inside the cave go left, past the first two deadly Doumas and collect the Air Herb from the chest. Ark can submerge and dive at the location of the bubbles in the water with this Air Herb in his possession. Dive here and Ark will appear on the other side of the wall. Follow the path and eventually he notices a dark silhouette in the water. Jump in and hug the left wall as you fall down to find a secret path behind the waterfall leading to a chest with the Magic Anchor.

Let Ark fall down to the bottom of the waterfall. Down under there are two Pupals awaiting you. Turn your back to them and their eye opens, quickly turn around and use any special attack to take them out as long as the eye is still opened. They also briefly open the eye when you look at them. Go past the entrance to the left. In the next room you can go either up the entrance or dive underneath the wall. Go up the entrance and you'll eventually reach a dead end with a chest containing 753 Gems. Jump down here and redo the falling part until you reach the branch again.

This time dive underneath and go up to the next chamber. Go left and you'll reach an area filled with Doumas. Go up and you'll find a chest with the GeoStaff. It is little weaker than the EnbuPike so equip it if you didn't resurrect Mu. Go upstairs and use the Slider attack on the drips of water on the wall behind the gap. This will flood the previous area allowing you to reach the Magirock.

Go on left and continue downstairs and equip the Magic Anchor so you won't be caught in the current of the rapid stream. Swim to the upper right corner, go down the little rocky steps and swim behind the waterfall (there is a visible path to the right). Before going down, take a look around you and notice some bubbles to the right. These are not enemies, but air bubbles dive down here to find a chest with the well hidden DrgnArmr.

<!-- MIXED -->

Once you got the armor go down stairs, swim up against the wall, then right and follow the right wall to reach the cascade. Down here is a boss battle.

**Boss:** Hitoderon (3x)

HP: ~150 each

**Exp:** 350 each

In the back you'll see Gossie the big friendly sea dragon. He fires fireballs at you to help you. This may seem weird, but the Hitoderon are those starfish that attach themselves on you. If this happens Gossie's fire breath is the only way to shake them loose. So concentrate you attacks on the star fish to take them out. It should not be too difficult, if you know what you're doing. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- When the battle is over Gossie gives you his Summon: The HornPin and some Magirocks to carry it. Ark doesn't understand what he's saying, but he comes along with him. Afterwards Ark meets up with Will and he tells you his story of how he crashed in the caverns, was attacked by the Star men and finally saved by the dragon Gossie.

**Nirlake - Will's place**

Will tells you that he needs metal from Lon Trade in Yunkou (China) to get

build the plane. Unfortunately the trading stopped so he requests Ark to

see what happened there.
