<a id="s7-3-4"></a>

### 7.3.4. The mourning queen of Sylvain

**Litz (1)**

Inn:

10 Gems

**Hidden Items:** 1 (85)

Fever Medicine - Get it from the Cleric at Dr. Emilio*

**Chests:** 1 (86)

Luck Potion

* = after freeing Columbus

Talking to the people around here tells you that the queen of Sylvain castle went mad after all three of her sons died on ship voyage. Also some of the people know a guy named Columbus who is a traveler that spent many months on the sea exploring it to find new continents. Royd appears here too, but he has no significant role however. In the upper left corner of town you can get a Luck Potion from the chest by the way.

Inside the small hospital around here is Dr. Emilio. He tells you about his research and his friend Columbus who is missing. If you can find him he gives you a sample of the medicine he is working on.

**Quatro's**

There is not much to do her, but if you give the blue haired woman a

massage by rubbing (actually pushing) her back she gives you 1 Gems and

each consecutive time 5 Gems as a reward. If you massage her twice the

Quatros will move to South America.

**Sylvain Castle**

**Hidden Items:** 3 (89)

Sapphire   - Hidden in the fountain, reachable after deactivating the

acid from the stone serpent

Topaz      - Get it from the Dragon Eye's socket on the right tower

Black Opal - Found in the chimney of the kitchen's fire place

**Chests:** 9 (98)

Stardew, STR Potion, 651 Gems, VestArmr, Tower Key, IcePick, DEF Potion,

L.Bulb, Ruby

**Magirocks:** 3 (54)

-Jump from the tightrope to the small ledge on the first floor

-In the Royalty near the bed

-In the right tower in the sewer area on the left side

Monsters:

Chakra, Blood Skeleton, Cursed Armor, Dark Bat, Skeleton, Soul Knight

Boss:

Bloody Mary & Doll

This is a pretty big castle with many strong enemies. In the first room there are three Cursed Armors that try to hit you with a Ball and Chain as weapon. Take them all three out for little over 100 Exp. To the left you can find a passage that lead to the basement floor. At the dead end is a chest with a Stardew herb. Go back and walk up the central stairs in the center of the room. Here you see the paintings of four different men who had their eyes cut out. Go up the stairway to the left to reach a higher level.

Walk up the chamber here and two skeletons get revived, which are presumably the remains of the attendants of the Sylvain queen. After beating them their spirits yield valuable information. Back in the corridor take the right passage down and you'll end up in the library. One of the books has the following poem:

I met four men. The first man had clear blue eyes. The second was an oriental with impressive deep black pupils. The third man had eyes that burned with passion. The last man ha a brown false eye. I decided to show them the special room.

What a strange poem you may ask, but it may come into play later. Also the year 286 appears as an important number here. Go back to the main corridor, then head down and notice the three chandeliers that are hanging around here. Go up the right entrance and you'll reach the chapel. To the north east of here is a dark room with four skeletons inside. Take them all out to make a spirit appear near the top. Talk to it and let it tag along with you until your reach its body.

<!-- MIXED -->

Go up and use a running jump to reach the lower left platform (is easier than jumping on the tightropes). Next you can collect a Magirock by jumping on the tightrope to the lower platform. This can be difficult, but if you press 'B' just before pressing down you should be able to get to it. Jump back on, continue to the left and dash jump to the platform with the STR Potion. Use it as you need all the power you can get for the upcoming battles. In the next room you'll find a Magirock near the bed guarded by two Cursed Armors. To the south of here is a chest with 651 Gems as booty. Take the passage in the bottom left corner to go outside. On the far right you can find a VestArmr in the chest. Go back to the Hall (the first room of the castle) and take the right passage on the elevated section. The soul will recognize the grey soldier's statue as his body and returns to it. As a token of his appreciation a mini-boss battle commences!

Mini-Boss: Soul Armor

**HP:** 170 · **Exp:** 59 · **Gems:** 57 (drop)

This guy is not that hard if your total attack power is above 60, if it is below this battle may take some time. You also need to beware of the candles around here for they fire little fiery projectiles at you. The soul knight itself is just a regular enemy from the dungeon as well. Take note that his shield allows his to block your attacks in some occasions. If he throws his ball he is vulnerable so hit him then. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the knight is gone a new bridge is formed to the right side allowing you to reach some new areas.

1. Go there, in this back room head upstairs twice and you'll see some chains and three digits on display.
2. Push against the wall to change the digits in "2" "8" "6" (as mentioned in the book) and you'll hear a mechanical sound if you did it correctly.
3. Go back down and head up via the left path.
4. Collect the Tower Key & Icepick from the chests.

Take note that this place is the perfect training spot. Kill the Soul Knight go back, reenter and kill it again for massive amounts of Exp in a very short time.

Go back and up the other path to the right. In the kitchen climb inside the fire place to find the Black Opal.

1. Go down and you will get outside again.
2. Use the Tower Key you got from the Soul Knight and enter the left tower and go to the top.
3. Look over the palace from the right and Yomi pops up.

He then pushes Ark so he makes a big leap to the other side of building.

1. Climb down the vine here to collect the Topaz from the stone dragon.
2. Enter the right tower using the Tower Key again, go downstairs and defeat the Soul Knight to enter the sewer system.
3. Collect the Magirock & DEF Potion on your way to the top.
4. Put your arm in the statues mouth to trigger a mechanism that stops pouring acid in the water.

So go back to the entrance of the castle and dive in the fountain. Ark will find the Sapphire here.

<!-- MIXED -->

Go back to that corridor with the three chandeliers and you'll see that they have dropped somewhat because you entered the correct number in the tower. Go right here and collect the two treasures: L.Bulb and Ruby from the chests. Now that you have all four jewels go back to the Hall and the walk up to the four pictures. The items will return to the corresponding paintings and the center chandelier will fall down opening the path to the special room. One word of advice here: Make sure that you are well equipped, level 23 or more and have several L.Bulbs, because the upcoming battle can be very difficult if your level is low.

**Boss Battle:** Bloody Mary

Doll - Phase 1

**HP:** N/A - Just hit it three times · **Exp:** 0

**HP:** N/A - Just attack it once · **Exp:** 40

Doll - Phase 2

**HP:** 400 · **Exp:** 850

Bloody Mary

-Phase 1 - the one behind- Initially you'll fight one Doll and three clones. In order to hit the right one you need to strike the one that is to you back when they stop rotating. So just have Ark look at you (face down) and wait until they stop. They use the Slicer attack upwards to hit the correct target. This always works. If you do this three times you can walk around freely and meet up with the lone prisoner to the right. If you try to talk to him the second phase commences.

-Phase 2- Simon Says- You have to play a game of Simon Says. Most native English people know what this means but for the rest I will explain. Simon Says is a simply game played by young children. The objective only to move when 'Simon' says its okay, if it is not then you have to stay put. The area is small so if you run you should be able to get to the Doll in one rush. After she speaks the word "Stop" you have to stop (just let go of the controller) and wait until she closes her eyes again, when you are in front of her attack with any move to start the final phase of this battle.

-Phase 3 - Bloody Mary- Bloody Mary can float in the air and it does about 35 damage each time you make contact with her (I had nearly 70 Total Defense). So don't get too close to her. She also has a huge amount of HP, but there is one comfort you are allowed to use your rings in this battle. She also calls four colored jewels into the battle that move in a rotating fashion. You may even want to use the weaker LightRod as Bloody Mary seems to be weak to the Light element. She takes off her mask and uses it to attack you actively, other than that Bloody Mary is also able to teleport freely to any location. The best way to defeat her is using the Slicer attack so you are constantly on the move. It may take some time, but eventually you can take her down. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Upon her defeat the curse of vengeance is lifted from the castle. You get teleported back to the prison. Talk to the guy against the wall to find out that he is Columbus.
