<a id="s7-3-5"></a>

### 7.3.5. A boat trip to the new continent

**Litz**

After taking him to Dr. Emilio's hospital he tells you that all his

navigational skill have been passed to Litz's sailors so you can set out

for the new continent. Columbus falls in a deep sleep, but don't forget him

for he will return later in the story. Collect the Fever Medicine from the

counter her at the Hospital's entrance.

**Litz - Harbor**

Talk to the sailor on the boat to claim a ticket, but the boat trip

tomorrow is not meant for civilians. Anyway, head to the inn and sleep over

the night. During your sleep Fyda enters the room and wakes up Ark. She

asks him to come along with Elle on the boat to the new continent as a

guard. When it is morning go aboard again and the ship sets out to the

west.

**Boat traveling to the new continent**

**Chests:** 1 (99)

L.Bulb

<!-- MIXED -->

You can talk to everybody, except Elle of course who doesn't respond. Inside the ship you can find an L.Bulb in the lone chest inside the hold. Go to bed and you'll wake up at night. You'll hear a scream so look up on the main deck.

**Boss:** Ship Ghost

HP: ~500

**Exp:** 0

As with the miserly ghost in Neotokio this guy is actually pretty much the same, but he doesn't come alone this time. He has three fake clones of him, and it is actually impossible to tell which one is the true ghost. So try to hit them with the Spinner attack and eventually you get the right one. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- When he is gone Elle regains consciousness and even thanks Ark for saving her. Answer to her replies in any way you like best. After the conversation go to bed and you will reach the new continent at last.

**Freedom - Harbor**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (100)

Royal Letter

**Magirocks:** 1 (55)

-Collect from the cabin near the bottom of the harbor

Yomi wakes you up from the floor and tells you that everybody has left the ship already. The sailor ashore gives you the Royal letter from Elle. Read it to find out that she disappeared not wanting to be a burden to Ark. She killed the king of Loire for the crimes he committed against her family. To the bottom of the screen you can find a small cabin. Inside is a Magirock for you to pick up freely. You can explore the most parts of Northern America freely now. First we go to the most northwest part where a secret forest area is hidden. Walk around here and Ark will discover the entrance automatically.

```
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Exploring America and many optional tasks
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

**Gumin**

**Hidden Items:** 2 (102)

Log (2x, regenerate each time you enter)

Monsters:

Gumin (Big), Gumin (Small)

Walk up this forest area and two strange creatures will appear from the tree stumps. It will assault you asking who is wrecking the forest. If you take it out it splits up in four smaller ones that can easily be taken out. If you look carefully around you'll notice the two logs on the spots where the two monsters were. Pick them up and redo this part until you have the maximum amount of 9 logs.

**Freedom (1)**

Inn:

10 Gems

**Hidden Items:** 1 (103)

NiceSuit - Grand Prize Lottery

**Magirocks:** 1 (56)

-At Bell's place, but only if you tell him the truth about Amanda

I will first discuss the obligatory parts we have to do here in Freedom. Then afterwards I'll handle all the extra things that can be done concerning expansion of Freedom.

First go to the skateboarder called Perel in the center of town. Talk to him and he shows you his moves for free. Next he asks you whether you are feeling better already. It doesn't matter what you answer here, but say yes to his question regarding meeting the other children. Follow him and wait for him to open the door, after doing so you can enter as well.

Inside Perel tells you that Will is out and he starts the introduction. Everybody is there except Anita. Talk to them to find out that Will is building a machine that allows him to fly. That's all for the obligatory part, below here all the additional things are mentioned that can be done here.

-Scenery Shots with Camera- Take some photographs with your camera right away, if you got it from Loire in the first place.

-Lottery - 1st Round- The lottery here sells tickets for 20 Gems. Most numbers are regular prizes, if you manage to get number 1 you get the special item. The best way to beat this lottery is by having a full stock of S. / M. / L. bulbs. This way you get a refund each time you hit one of those, because Ark cannot carry any more. I managed to get the grand prize here with a "Pick from the bottom". The grand prize of the lottery changes each time Freedom expands. For the first lottery you'll get: Fancy Clothes (NiceSuit). Hardly worth the effort, but still for the collectors it may be nice to get.

-Pub- The guy behind the counter only serves Bourbon, which is a bit too hard for the lady over to the right. So equip the Wine and give it to her. She'll be very happy to find this new exotic drink and take the whole blooming bottle.

-3 Girls'- Enter this home and talk to them to find out that they could use some new fancy wear. Equip the fancy clothes and give it to them for a kiss as reward to make Ark's blood pressure rise by 10 points, silly programmers. If you reenter now the color of their dresses has changed from red to blue.

-Bell's- Inside you will meet a guy named Bell. He asks you to do a favor for him and if you oblige to that he tells you to see his girl Amanda in Nirlake. He is wondering how things are going there and wants you to ask her this. In Nirlake you will find out that Amanda has found a more buff dude so she ditched Bell. After you come back to Bell he'll ask you want she thought. If you tell him the truth he sets off to the pub. Talk to him there, leave, reenter and talk again. This will get him back to work inventing the telephone and he even thanks you for being honest. If you lie Bell will invent the telephone, but there won't be a Magirock in his home he gets over Amanda. You will only get a mere 100 Gems in return however.

-Eddy's- Eddy is the name and electricity is his game. He's trying to find out a way to create an artificial light by using electricity. He asks you to push the machine for him, because it stopped working. Keep pushing and the machine will 'Toast' Ark. This gives Eddy a hint how he can use it to create his invention.

That's all we can do for him at the moment. If you completed all of these side-quests Freedom will expand. So go to a different entrance on the world map (like Nirlake) and go back on the world map to see whether you were successful.

**Freedom (2)**

Inn:

10 Gems

**Hidden Items:** 1 (104)

ThunPike - Grand Prize Lottery

**Magirocks:** 2 (58)

-Buy Kingbird's freedom for 5,000 Gems and go to his nest to find it

-Back room of Stoma's place

-Kingbird on the Black Market- Now that Freedom expanded for the first time you can buy Serums and Holy Water around here too. The weapons and armors are not worth the huge cost, besides Ark will find better ones pretty soon. Go down stairs at the shop to find the Black Market. Talk to the guy here and pay up 5,000 Gems to set the Kingbird free again. If you go back to his nest you'll find a Magirock for your efforts there.

-Lottery - 2nd Round- Buy some more tickets to the get the Thunder Spear (ThunPike ATK +35, which is much at this part of the game) as a first prize this time round. For the rest this lottery is exactly identical to the previous one.

-Tourism Center- You can show them the pictures you took from Nirlake, Litz, Loire and Suncoast. The last place is not reachable, yet but we will get there soon.

-Bell's- Enter the home of Bell and talk to him to hear that he completed his invention. Go to the back room and try to examine the machine here. You'll get a message from Bell over the telephone and thus witness the first telephone conversation. Indeed, this character was named after Graham Bell the inventor of the telephone.

-Eddy's- Talk to him and he requests your help for the final experiment. The two of you have to push a button on both machines at the same time so listen to him and you get to see the very first spark of electricity that gives shape to a new kind of light source! Perhaps you may not think of it, but this is a not too bad example that resembles how electric light was discovered not so long ago by Thomas Alva Edison. No wonder his name is Eddy.

**Nirlake (1)**

Inn:

5 Gems

**Hidden Items:** 1 (105)

Tin Sheet

**Chests:** 1 (106)

Life Potion

The guy in front of the home to the right tells you about the Deadly Poison status, which can only be cured by Serum. I recommend you buy some Serums (later on), because some enemies up ahead can induce this fatal status on Ark. The other villagers have some hints for you as well. Here are some of the optional things to be done here. You can get a Life Potion from the chest inside the cabin in lower left corner of town.

-Scenery Shots with Camera- Take some shots of the scenery with the Camera, just as you did in Loire and Freedom. Any location is okay.

-Mick's- In the upper left home lives the master chef Mick. He is studying a very cheap beef item. Choose the following options for the most optimal result: "Grind it", "Wrap w/lattice" & "Put it in a bun". Note that you have to reenter his home after each step. When Mick completes the item he tells you that his Big Mick is instantaneously famous. Why not replace the 'i' in the name by an 'a' for a more familiar look.

-Will's- Exit Nirlake to the right and you can enter a small area with Dr. Keinz and Will's home. Inside pick up the sheet of metal called Tin Sheet from the ground. Study the dairy for some information about Will's progress. Also push the bookcase here to the right to find Anita. She tells you that Will is gone to some place. Apparently he crashed near the Great Lake Cavern. So we better go and check it out.

**Great Lake Cavern**

At the entrance of the Cavern a young man named Servas is waiting for his

fiancée Nana. He tells you that she should come back from the carnival in

Liotto down south.

**Colorado River**

**Magirocks:** 1 (59)

Upon completion of the bridge you can find a rock on the bridge itself

After you get 9 logs from Gumin Forest you can give them to the bridge builder and he'll make a bridge for you to the other side! Collect the Magirock on it and now you'll be able to travel back to the older places you've visited like the Sanctuar and Guiana. Anyway go to the far south and you'll find Liotto and three secret areas.

**Mouse's Sprinting Test**

**Magirocks:** 1 (60)

-See below

Talk to the mouse at the entrance to the far southern part of S. America and undergo his trial to complete the running field to the other side in 20 seconds to get a Magirock as a prize. Wait a minute Ark talks to a mouse... I thought he lost his ability to communicate with animals. For the quickest route take the upper route, crawl down follow the lower path and swim to the left. Ark will get the Magirock if he completes it in 20 seconds or less.

**Deserted Ruins**

**Chests:** 2 (108)

378 Gems, Life Potion

There are some ruins to the north of the Sprinting Test. The chest around here contains 378 Gems. Lift the rock to the right to get the Life potion from the other chest.

**Stopover - S. America**

Little to the north of the ruins and the sprinting test is a hidden area.

The gull here will take you to another Stopover at the frozen island of

Greenland. Here you can find a Cavern and Penginea.

**Cavern on Greenland**

**Chests:** 1 (109)

961 Gems

There is not much to do in the single room cave, but you can collect some booty from the chest to the left here.

**Penginea-**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (110)

Starstone - Trade for Pretty Flower with the Penguin

**Magirocks:** 1 (61)

-Inside the first igloo to the left

This is a small penguin village with a few penguins as inhabitants. You cannot converse with them, but still some of the interactions are pretty clear. For example eat the fish in the upper left igloo and the fisherman penguin gets angry at you. Inside the left igloo there is a Magirock waiting for you to be collected.

Remember what the Flower Girl in Loire said about the Pretty flowers? Equip them and give one to the penguin in front of the rightmost igloo. In return you receive a Starstone. You may wonder what this item is used for, but as the description reads we need five of these much later on in the game. Go back to South America and visit Liotto right away.
