<a id="s7-3-10"></a>

### 7.3.10. Dr. Beruga's laboratory

Using your plane you can now reach Mosque, which is totally isolated from the rest of the world.

**Cave - Siberia**

**Chests:** 1 (144)

BlockRod

Inside the cavern, go right over the lower tightrope to reach the BlockRod. This is the second special weapon you can find in the game. This weapon converts part of your base strength to defense.

**Mosque**

Inn:

50 Gems

**Magirocks:** 1 (82)

-Backroom top right corner home

Collect the Magirock from the home and you may like to buy a RedArmr for the amount of 6660 Gems. It raises Strength but lowers Life by 50 points, so think about this before buying the armor. Don't buy anything else here at these highly inflated prices. All the people in White robes are the disciples of Beruga. Enter the home to the left and watch as you are informed about Dr. Beruga's activities. The scientist is planning on making all the necessary immortal so everybody can live in peace. All those who are considered irrelevant can die. That is the utopia Dr. Beruga strives for.

**Dr. Beruga's Lab**

**Chests:** 2 (146)

SoulArmr, DEF Potion

Monsters:

Cube, Figure Head, Goblin (A)

Boss:

Security Bot

On the map notice how Beruga's name is misspelled as "Veruga", but that may be an artifact of the Japanese language (see Appendix F for more info.). Inside the lab go to the far right, then down and follow the left wall. You'll find a switch here that turns on the light. Go down further and crawl up, throw the brown item, crawl up again and you'll find a chest with a SoulArmr inside. Go back and to the right. Here you'll see a Figure Head, these guys look a bit like Robocop. Go along the corridor and press the second switch to activate the elevator. Go back to the elevator near the start and go down one floor. You'll notice that the lab starts to liven up again.

On B1F go left, run over the conveyor belt to reach the left side, crawl up through tight passage and take out the three Goblins. To the right there is a teleporting device. Enter it to reach a different area. Go up another room and press the third switch to activate the computer on B2F. So go back to the elevator and go down another floor.

<!-- MIXED -->

1. Enter B2F take out the Cubes, enter the left teleporter on the conveyor belt and find a DEF Potion at the dead end.
2. Go back and this time have Ark enter the right teleporter.
3. Follow the path of teleporters and you'll end up at the main computer, but it requires a password.

Yomi tells you to enter "BLOODY MARY". So Ark inputs that word. All locks are removed and you can now reach the bottom layer B99F. You can get quite some information out of this machine so try all the options, if you like. It tells you about the airborne lethal virus called Asmodeus that will wipe out 90% of the earth's inhabitants. Back at the elevator go all the way down to the lowest floor. Enter it and a boss battle commences.

**Boss:** Security Bot

Bot's Leg (3x) HP: ~500 (each)

**Exp:** 500 (each)

**HP:** ~100 (each) · **Exp:** 30 (each)

Mini Squad (7x)

This boss has some annoying attack that can downgrade you strength temporarily. Take out all three of the limbs its standing on to take out this machine. If you manage to damage one sufficiently red sparks will appear denoting this, when you take out all three the machine notes that it still has a last breath attack and dispatches 7 mini thingies to attack you. Just wipe them all out with a single attack for a victory. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- The corridor above opens up and Ark can reach Dr. Beruga, who is just about to be resurrected from the fridge. He shows you the undead that he resurrected himself so they can live forever. If you try to get close to Beruga Ark will get caught by the defense system that takes him out. Beruga then speaks of his liege coming back from the Underworld to take over the world again. On the next scene you get to see how Asmodeus takes out all the people in Neotokio turning it into one big ruin.
