<a id="s7-3-2"></a>

### 7.3.2. Cure Loire's mute princess

**Hidden Area NE of Loire - World Map**

**Magirocks:** 1 (45)

Near top of the screen in plain sight

There is a hidden mountain area located to the north east of Loire and its castle. You should be able to see the path at the entrance of the mountains. The only thing that Ark can do here is grabbing a Magirock.

**Molly's**

The cabin to the far north area (Sweden and Finland) is Molly's home. He

tells you about the two forest areas nearby: Norfest and Mush. We will go

through Norfest later, but Mush is an interesting area to explore right

now.

**Mush - East of Molly's**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (68)

Mushroom

**Chests:** 2 (70)

L.Bulb, 500 Gems

This forest is only one screen big, but it has some interesting prizes

hidden within it. To the north is a chest with an L.Bulb for you. A

fiendishly hidden chest can be found near the lone tree to the right of

here. If you walk by its stump to the north on the right side you will get

stuck. This is so because a chest is blocking your path! Open it to claim

500 Gems for free. Our real purpose for entering this area is plucking the

little brown Mushroom located to the south of the entrance. You can just

see it under the tree, so get it for we need this item very soon.

**Loire (1)**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (71)

Sleep Potion

Enter the first home around here to hear the two children speak about the legendary White Wind (a.k.a. Robin Hood the look-a-like). This good thief is locked up in Loire's Castle so you may want to release him when we get there. The shops around sell the usual stuff you already know about. The only interesting item is the SlvrPike for 1500 Gems. Do NOT buy the RingMail for Ark will find one in a chest soon enough which costs only 0 Gems. That is much cheaper.

Buy two Pretty Flowers from the Flower Girl and we have all the flowers Ark needs in his quest. Remember the speechless girl in the Nomad's Camp? Give her the flower and she tells you that her name is Chija. Later on we will meet her parents, so remember that name well.

The guy at the Winery wants to sell his wine to many people, but the King buys up everything so there is nothing left to sell. At Madame Papilo's you'll discover that the weavers and the blonde Marily at the back wish to start their own shop so they can sell their good to the masses. Mme. Papilo herself only wants to sell exclusively to the royalty, so we got another task here. To the left of here is Jean's place, he is studying for the moment the masses can rule the town. The leftmost home is the gallery of Matis. This painter will offer you something to drink if you talk to him twice. Matis tells you that he wishes to sell paintings around the world just like the other people we met he's trying to broaden the horizon. Finally, Dr. Keinz just in front of the Inn is an economist who will advice you about the growth of a town. If a town's growth index reaches 100% it should expand into a bigger version. This is one of the nice features of this game, but unfortunately nothing can be done until the king's rule is broken.

Reading the signs in the center of town tells you that a groom is wanted for the princess. Only the One that can make the princess speak can marry her as decreed by Loire's king: Henri the 13th. If you talk to drinker Louis you will find out that many people were killed because Louis gave the Protect Bell to the king. It seems that the bell helped him navigate through the Norfest Forest to a hidden village behind it. The king may still have it, but he doesn't know where.

The last (and most important) event around here is inside the Bounty's Inn. You get pushed into buying a drink and a dancing girl appears to make your life pleasant. The cost of this exclusive diner is 1,000,000 (which is more than Ark can carry) so he can never pay it. Next a female knight called Fyda comes in and tells the Bounty to stop this instant with his ridiculous act. After some talking the Bounty offers Ark a free stay and you better get some sleep, because Ark is going to enter the groom contest tomorrow.

After staying for the night you will meet a chemist in at the entrance of Loire's Bounty. Give him the Mushroom you found earlier so he can create a sleeping potion for you, but it will only be ready after you completed the contest.

**Loire Castle**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (72)

Jail Key - Get from guard after using the sleep potion on the cooking pot

**Chests:** 1 (73)

Protect Bell

**Magirocks:** 2 (47)

-In the Pantry to the left of the Dining Room

-In the same room of the tower as the Protect Bell

From the entrance go up, right and down into the Pantry to find a Magirock. The Library in the left back room of the first floor has some books with information that clears the situation up for you. The king took the orphan daughter from the village of Storkholm as his daughter. After that he killed all the people in that town, because he and his royal troops failed to find the treasure that was hidden here. It is also noted that the people of Storkholm used Dog whistles to control their dogs.

Go up the 2nd floor and talk to the guard here to enter the contest. You have to wait in the room to the right as you await your turn to present yourself to her. Here you can find a blue haired jerk called Royd, Ark will meet him sometime later again. To tell you the truth he's not so bad as he acts just now. After the talk the guard comes in and the guy with the pointy gold hair may enter first. That's you so go and present yourself to the princess. Talk to the butler and the king, then talk to the princess who resembles the Underworld Elle greatly. But unlike your Elle she is completely different and she ignores you completely. Talk to the butler again and you are allowed to find a cure for the princess' muteness.

**Loire - Bounty's**

After giving the Chemist the Mushroom you will receive the Sleep Potion.

When you got it go back to the castle and pour it into the big cooking pot

in the Dining room.

**Loire Castle**

Enter the Dining room, equip the Sleep Potion and use it on the pot here,

but only after the red haired maid turns her back to you. If she sees you

cannot get the potion in it. After a successful attempt the maid declares

that dinner is ready, so she requests you to leave the castle.

Reenter the castle and everybody is asleep. You can rescue the prisoner in the barracks to the left. Just say "No Problem" when you talk to him to get the key from the guard to the left to acquire the Jail Key by loaning it from him. The White Wind will thank you for saving him as he leaves. He also gives you a hint where some secret treasure is hidden: the King's bed room.

Go there and you'll find Elle awake at the entrance. Apparently she did not eat from the supper so that is why she is still awake. Go up and push the sleeping guard (similar like a rock) to get past him. Enter the right room and you see the king sleeping in his bed. Try to communicate with him for another hint where the treasure is hidden. As visible to the right a small passage is hidden behind the golden statue so push it and crawl through it to reach the tower. Inside go up the stairs and collect the Magirock & Protect Bell. With this Bell we can finally tackle the Norfest Forest to the far north and west of Molly's place.

**Norfest Forest**

**Chests:** 5 (78)

RingMail, Life Potion, 389 Gems, Dog Whistle, M.Bulb

**Magirocks:** 3 (50)

-After Meilin joins you can find it in the next area to the right

-North to the bridge area; top of the screen

-Just before entering Storkholm, take the lower left passage

Monsters:

Dark Bat, Sabre Dog, Warlock, Will o Whisp

At the entrance you'll meet Royd again. Talk to him if you want to or just enter the forest right away. If you equipped the Protect Bell it should chime right now. On this first screen go right between the trees and get the free RingMail as I spoke of earlier from the chest. There are also many Sabre Dogs out here, but with the SlvrPike (effective to wolves) they should not be difficult to defeat.

On the next screen you will find yourself in a maze where each screen looks similar all the time. Go North, North, East & North to reach the bridge and note that the Protect Bell rings at each screen. If not then you didn't follow the correct route. Read the sign to find out that Storkholm is located behind it, but unfortunately the bridge is out so take the path to the right. We have to take a detour to get to Storkholm.

Here go to the far south and find the Life Potion cleverly hidden in chest behind the center tree near bottom of the screen. There are also three Sabre Dogs around this place. Go back up and follow the path to the lower right corner. There is a passage here to a very dark area. Navigate yourself to the top right corner for a chest with 389 Gems waiting to be plundered by Ark. Go up one screen and the scene shows you a mysterious black figure that is following you.

On the next screen you meet some Warlocks that throw rotating sparks at you that can toast Ark. Go up, then another screen to the left, move to the north here and take the right passage. In the next watery area you can find a crucial item called Dog Whistle. You need this when Ark gets to Storkholm so make sure to collect it. Go back and follow the path to the southwest, when you try to exit you get to hear a scream so go back up and take out the four Dark Bats to save the mysterious figure. It turns out to be Meilin and she will tag along with you to Storkholm.

1. Go south again, collect the Magirock on the right here (behind the tree, but visible), head to the left and you'll reach the bridge area again.
2. Go north here to find another part of the darkened forest and a Magirock at the top of this area.
3. Follow the only route around here and collect the M.Bulb from the chest along the path.

On this same screen you can go left via two passages. The lower one is a dead end, but it there is a Magirock there. Go back and up the bridge via the upper left passage and you'll reach a very familiar place.

**Storkholm**

**Chests:** 2 (80)

M.Bulb, Portrait

Upon entering this place Ark immediately recognizes Crysta in it! This can't be a coincidence, but what is going on around here? Then you get attacked by 6 wolves. They hold still at a distance, but they will attack you if you try to enter the village any further. Remember the Dog Whistle you just collected and the note in the library. Indeed use the Dog Whistle and the Wolves go back where they came from. You can explore Storkholm, but all the homes are locked securely. Only the Elder's home, or actually Elle's home will open up. Inside collect the M.Bulb and the Painting from the chests. Meilin will tell you that this is Elle's family and she can create mirages that look just like them in front of Elle's eyes. That should cheer her up enough to regain her speech. If you leave Storkholm Meilin departs to the castle right away.

**Loire Castle**

Go back to Elle and King Henry #13 to meet Meilin just before the throne

room. She sets everything up and Ark can enter to see the king again. Talk

to him and Meilin creates a mirage of Storkholm and Elle's parents. King

Henry, Elle and Ark also here at the scene as Elle regains a little of her

speech again after she sees her parents once again. After the scene Ark

gets thrown out and the interviews are cancelled. Outside Meilin will meet

up with you again. You go back to Loire's inn and in his dream Ark has a

vision of the Elder. He tells him that he is not done yet.
