<a id="s7-3-9"></a>

### 7.3.9. Lon trading in Dragoon castle

**Yunkou**

Inn:

5 Gems

**Hidden Items:** 1 (138)

Ginseng - Get from Lon

**Magirocks:** 2 (78)

-Top right corner in the back of the alley

-Reunite the mute orphan Chija with her parents

In the upper right building on the main floor you can find two parents how abandoned their child. They are awfully sorry and tell you to find their daughter called Chija. Indeed, that is the same Chija as the speechless girl in the Nomad's Camp between Teklama Desert and Louran. If you gave her a flower Ark will tell the parents that Chija is there and they are getting her back. Your reward is a Magirock for reuniting them.

On the second floor of the inn you'll meet Fyda again, sort of. She is in a deep sleep and will not awaken. She is ill and requires medication to be healed. Talk to the doctor in the northwest building to find out that Ginseng from Lon Trading is required to heal the physical part of Fyda's disease. The building next door is the place of Lon Trading. Go upstairs here and meet Lon. Ask him about the Ginseng and he eventually tells you a story of what went wrong with him and his brother Wong. Assure him to check on Wong and he gives you Ginseng.

Go back to Fyda and make her drink this stuff to enter Fyda's dream. In here you get to see how she killed the parents of Elle under the strict orders of the king. She promises the parents to look after Elle and guard her with her own life. The screen turns black and Ark appears just behind her. Answer "That's not true" to get her over this problem the best you can. After this event Perel will be waiting outside for you. He tells you that he will help you get in to Dragoon Castle.

**Dragoon Castle**

**Chests:** 4 (142)

200 Gems, 300 Gems, L.Bulb, 3PartRod

**Magirock:** 3 (81)

-Just before meeting underworld Elle in the dungeon to the south

-To the south of the 200 Gems chest

-Go down two floors from the previous rock to find it in plain sight

Monsters:

none

Before tackling this dungeon make sure that you have the Running Shoes from the island at Indonesia. You need these boots here to get through this dungeon. You don't have to fight anyone, but you may never be detected by the guards, which is an even more difficult task. After Perel distracting the front guard you can enter the castle.

Inside, sneak past the first guard, head north, go past a guard, jump over the gap and sneak by another guard. In the back room use the Running Boots with 'X' to open the center wall section at the dead end. Run to the northwest and go down the stairs. Below in the dungeon you can find a Magirock to the far south. Go right here and Ark notices Elle hanging on the wall in chains. This is obviously a trap, but we have to fall for it in order to make progression.

Elle disappears meaning that it was just an optical illusion, or better put a mirage. Go down and Meilin is their awaiting you. She tells you that this serves you right as you hurt her feelings. Ark can't get out here so he starts sulking. You get to see a cut scene where Elle, Wong and Royd appear. Wong speaks of the day when only necessary people will live forever. He uses Royd to guard Elle so she can't escape.

The next moment a chain appears and Ark can escape to safety. It turns out that Fyda threw the chain down you to save you, just like you saved her before. Next get back to the start (getting caught makes things much easier and faster this time round). Ascend to the elevated section and follow the right path, just past the guard is a corridor.

Walk up to the back of the room, jump over the gap and meet another underworld Elle. She tells you that the princess is held back there. First explore the right part and find a chest with 200 Gems in the upper right corner. The lower path has a Magirock along the path.

1. Go down another floor and find 300 Gems and an L.Bulb in the chests.
2. Go down yet another floor to find a Magirock on the lone isle in the sewer area.
3. Go upstairs to find the 3PartRod at the dead end.

Go back all the way and 'save' the 'real' princess Elle. Indeed, this is another trap as expected. You get saved by the one who saved you earlier: Fyda! Meilin appears and receives a beating for her misdeeds. She leaves you saying that Wong will erase you. Fyda will follow you here as you try to go back. Meilin appears along the path. She is betrayed by Wong and is now stuck with the other two as well. Next Perel breaks the entrance open again and you can all escape. Ark has to go back to the initial room and this time we go up the left path.

In this room you see six candles and six pots filled with water (actually it doesn't look like water, but anyway) throw each of the six against an active candle to extinguish the flame. If all six are out the passage opens. As Meilin advised you go and check the wall opposite of the unpaired statue to find a switch. Push it to open a passage to the back. Enter it use the running shoes to open another secret door and you'll meet up with Royd and Elle. Royd wants to battle you, but Fyda steps in and takes your place in combat allowing you to escape with Elle.

Outside follow Meilin and you the two of you escape. As Fyda prepares for battle Royd tells her to put her sword back and tells her that he never intended to fight or kill anybody. Elle wants to stay behind and leaves you as well. No matter what you do she stays behind, so continue on without her. Royd and Wong appear in cut scene and Royd takes care of Wong by eliminating him. In his last moments he spills out the name of his boss Dr. Beruga. Keep on moving and Meilin joins you. She tells you that she didn't see Elle so to keep things short she just disappeared again. The castle collapses and everybody quickly escapes to safety.

**Nirlake - Will's**

Talk to Will and he'll let you use the Airplane for free! Also Freedom can

now expand to level 3 from this moment on!

**Freedom (3)**

Inn:

10 Gems

**Hidden Items:** 1 (143)

X-Spear

Talk to some of the people around here and you can also find out that Bell has a new girlfriend if you told him the truth about Amanda. Other than that the winning item in the Lottery is probably the only thing useful to get here.

-Lottery 3rd Round- Enter the lottery again and you can win a unique item this time round: the special X-Spear. This is a weapon that increases the amount of critical hits. A critical hit is a flashing number of damage that is either 2x or 3x the normal amount of damage, which means that this spear is actually stronger than the attack power says!
