<a id="s7-3-7"></a>

### 7.3.7. Liotto's carnival & Mermaid tower

**Liotto**

Inn:

Free

Magirocks 2 (63)

-Clear the Cream-a-Cat game

-Backroom of the Brazilian food store to the left

The guy outside the fortunes booth hints you about the special abilities of Staffs. That is a nice thing to know. Next play the Cream-a-Cat game to win a Magirock as a prize. The best way to clear all cats in this game is by starting with the front two, then the leftmost & rightmost cats. Next use each item to take out two cats simultaneously by throwing it between to cats at the same height. To hit the two in the back you must throw while running. Ark can get another rock from the backroom in the upper left corner home.

You can talk to the soccer kid for some silly answers. If you say that you don't know, then the kid will not talk to you anymore. Also if you throw the pot against the samba monkey the woman next to him will never let you in her home anymore, because you hurt little defenseless animals.

On with the story again. Talk to the girl in front of the Pink Cloud cotton candy booth to find out that she is Meilin. She'll tag along with you no matter what you reply as an answer. After she comes with you, go up to the statue of Jesus Christ (the same 40 meter statue that is famous in Brazil). Meilin walks up to it and tells you that she loves you and would like to meet you here at night.

Go to the inn, sleep there for free and get back here at night. You'll hear a voice and the Underworld Elle appears from behind the statue! She tells you that she came here with the Elder permission to see you. Her image disappears and Meilin comes out. She tells you that you saw the image of the person you truly loved and it wasn't her. That saddens her deeply and she leaves you with a feeling of hatred.

**Liotto - Harbor**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (111)

Boat - Get from the captain after you beat the monsters in Mermaid Tower

After the events in Liotto the captain in the harbor wants somebody to get rid of the monsters that roam the sea. The all originate from Mermaid Tower so you have to go there and take them out at the source. Comply with the captain's wish and you get the boat for free after you manage to get rid of the monsters. Get on the boat and you're off to Mermaid Tower.

**Mermaid Tower**

**Hidden Items:** 2 (113)

Engagement Ring, WaterPin

**Chests:** 1 (114)

SeaSpear*

**Magirocks:** 6 (69)

-All 6 accompany the WaterPin

Monsters:

Cally

Boss:

Purple Cally

* = only available after beating the Purple Cally

<!-- MIXED -->

Inside go down several stairs and you'll meet some Cally fish who spit some bubbles as an attack. These monsters are very rich in terms of Exp and Gems so fight many of them. Go down three sets of stairs to meet the boss already (a small dungeon this is).

**Boss:** Purple Cally

**HP:** 187 · **Exp:** 62 · **Gems:** 79 (can drop)

The boss around here is the very shy purple fish. The Cally that appear along with it are invulnerable so don't waste time on them. Hold still and wait for the purple Cally to approach. Quickly attack it and one hit should be enough. It is just a regular Cally with a different color pattern so it gives the same amount of Exp and Gems (if you're lucky that it drops some Gems). --------------------------------------------------------------------------- Now that no more Cally appear the mermaids whispering commences again. Go up to the main floor and talk to the Mermaid with a tiara to meet Nana, Servas' fiancée who died on the ship voyage and became a mermaid. She requests you to give the Engagement Ring to Servas at the entrance of the Great Lakes Cavern. Go further up and you'll receive the WaterPin with 6 Magirocks from the mermaids blocking the path. Miraculously a chest has appeared to the right of here and it contains the SeaSpear.

**Liotto - Harbor**

Back again here you receive the boat for your efforts. Now you can explore

the world freely. The only region we cannot yet get to is Mosque, so I

devoted the next chapter to all the optional events that can be completed

now. Note that not everything is optional like getting the Speed Boots, but

I placed it down here so everything more concise.
