<a id="s7-3"></a>
## 7.3. Resurrection of the Genius

<a id="s7-3-1"></a>

### 7.3.1. A warm welcome in the desert mirage of Louran

**Lhasa - 3 years later**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (60)

BonePin - Get it from Kumari

**Magirocks:** 1 (33)

-Accompany the BonePin

You'll be greeted by a human woman as you awake in a little Tibetan village called Lhasa. Talking to the people here tells you about Lord Kumari who lives here as well. You'd better go and pay a visit to him. To the right you'll find Luki the person who looked after Ark as he slept for three years. Go up one floor and enter the long corridor to the left to find Lord Kumari. He tells you that you can no longer converse with any of other forms of flora and fauna, which makes you appear as a regular human being. You receive the BonePin so you can escape any dungeon at any time.

When you try to leave Lhasa you will meet Master Meihou. Speak to him and he tells you to talk to him after he has completed his meeting with Kumari. So, go back inside and watch the conversation. Meihou came back from Louran and speaks about the perils he has with his granddaughter Meilin. Talk to Meihou now to hear the full story. Meilin used to live in Louran with her parents, but after they died she was take in by Meihou. Meilin however misses her parents so much that she went back to the ruins of the village and created a mirage so she could make it appear as she is still living with her actual parents. He also tells you that Louran is in the desert nearby. So you should go there soon, but first buy the MonkRobe if you can afford it (it can deflect curses, which comes in handy in the future). Also if you really like you can backtrack to the King Birds's nest and get to Kamiyo.

**Safarium - Lion's Den**

**Magirocks:** 1 (34)

-Win the mini-game

After the revival of humans a man appears in the Lion Den who will tell you about his special Head counting game. If you manage to beat it you can get the shiny stone a.k.a. Magirock as a reward. Your objective is to hit as many grey heads as possible, while avoiding the yellow ones (which subtract a point from your total).

**KingNest**

Try to communicate with the center gull (the gulls can't talk but the

"!![...]!" answer means flying) to head out for Kamiyo. Here on this little

island you can find the prospering town of Neotokio.

**Neotokio - Optional**

Inn:

10 Gems

**Magirocks:** 2 (36, I assume that you are playing the Non-Japanese Version)

-Inside the left room of the first left building

-Become Noodles King (enter the eating contest and win)

-Win the quiz (Tenshi Souzou - Japanese version only!)

Optional Boss:

Miserly Ghost

This prospering town is already evolved to the high-tech civilization level. You can talk to the people around here for some nice replies. Go down the stairs to enter the lower levels of Neotokio. On the left you can eat as many Noodles as you like and if you win you get a Magirock for free. Press 'A' & 'B' in a alternating way to eat some Noodles, look at the counter below to see how good you are progressing compared to your opponent. If you do it right you should be able to beat your opponent by at least 10 bowls, but that requires pretty good reflexes. The best way to do this is by holding your thumb between the two buttons so you can touch them just by wiggling left and right. This seems to be the fastest way of pressing the two keys.

<!-- MIXED -->

In the center of this low area you find a locked door leading to the sewers. We will get past this door, but not just yet. To the right is a little bar where you can eat some Grilled Chicken and Sake. Outside again, the woman near the empty lot to the top talks about having a fancy building here. So check the garbage can to the right of it to hear a desperate voice and Ark will enter it to reach a messy room. Inside is a boss battle against a ghost who has grudge against the programmers of this game (he was also programmed by them...).

**Boss:** Miserly Ghost

**HP:** 750 · **Exp:** 0

Gems: -

If you fight him as soon as possible (with the FirePike and the MonkArmor) then this will be a long battle. The ghost doesn't do much damage, but it is difficult to hit even with the Spinner attack and it has a huge amount of HP. The only vulnerable moment is just after he appears and before he starts rushing at you. After the battle and several comments on improving your life he finally vanishes. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

When you beat him a chicken(!) appears on the location of the garbage can between the beds. Chicken tells you a small story of getting stuck in the can and tells you that he is a game designer at Quintet; the makers of the game (apparently the programmer liked to use the chicken sprite for himself). He tells you that as reward he'll program a game with you in the main character. Hmm... This boss only missed the text: "On this day Quintet & Terranigma was resurrected".

Anyway, the Quintet building will pop up from the ground and inside you can talk to various game designers and other people of that company. If you happen to be playing the Japanese version of the game you can get an additional Magirock by answering several questions in the quiz (for some reason this was removed in all the other language versions of the game). That is all you can do in Neotokio. Go back to Lhasa and then head out for the desert to the north east.

**Hidden Forest Area - Northeast of the Gobi Desert**

**Magirocks:** 1 (37)

Upon entering this hidden area on the world map you can get a Magirock,

just by walking to the left.

**Gobi**

Walk up here and you'll see a little girl. Pursuit her and Ark will reach

Louran eventually.

**Louran - Desert Town**

Inn:

Free - useable only after speaking to Meilin

**Magirocks:** 1 (38)

-On the main floor in the back room of Meilin's

In the building to the north there is a shop that sells the BrnzPike. I recommend that you do not buy this weapon as a much more effective weapon will be available very soon. To the left you will hear from the bloke that he is going to break open the wall here to make a new doorway (remember this). In the inn close by you can find Hedyn the traveler Ark will meet him on later occasions again, but for now take the lower left exit in the center of town to find Temjin's place. Speak to him and tell him to have his money buried along with him when he dies (this way you can get some additional cash).

The back door of Temjin's home leads to Meilin's place. Here you can meet her parents... Wait a minute they were deceased, right? Enter the chimney to find Meilin herself. She tells you abruptly to leave town right away. After talking to Meilin you can take a nap at the inn to find yourself in a strange situation.

**Louran - Zombie Ruins**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (61)

Red Scarf - Find it on the floor in Meilin's room

**Chests:** 7 (67)

M.Bulb, Rags, P.Cure, LightRod, 178 Gems, L.Bulb, STR Potion

**Magirocks:** 6 (44)

-E Side lower entrance from Square inside first building

-E Side upper entrance from Square inside first building

-Basement floor upper left building N Side

-2nd floor upper left building N side (crawl under the table)

-Isolated area of the Square, reachable from the N Side

-Inside Zombie residence to the northeast of the previous Magirock

Monsters:

Basilisk, Borfe, Chonchon, Ghost, Maduu, Raiden, Zombie Boy, Zombie Girl,

Zombie Man, Zombie Woman

The Back Ground Music has changed and not only that. Yomi finds out that this is Louran's true form; a deserted ruin. There are zombies all over the place trying to eliminate you. The zombies can even fight after you decapitate them so they need at least hits in order to be killed. Pick up the M.Bulb from the left chest and fall down the gap in the rear room of the inn. Watch out for the haunted tables that attack you in the next room. Go outside via the northern passage to find yourself on the W. Side in front of Meilin's. Go inside, up the chimney and collect the Red Scarf

belonging to Meilin from the floor. The moment you collect the scarf Yomi and Ark give the player a hint what to do next; Find the dog named Turbo. Go south and you'll meet Hedyn in Temjin's home, after the conversation head to the Square and get the Rags (if you really want to) and the P.cure from the two chests in the upper middle building.

Back the Square of town take the upper road to the East Side and enter the first building you come across. Inside are some Zombies and a Magirock. To the right you will find the LightRod. Equip this Light elemental weapon to increase damage against the undead significantly, even though its attack power is less than the BrnzSpear. It should be much easier to hold those pesky undead at bay from here on.

Back at the Square enter the East side via the lower path, and then enter the first building to find a Magirock. Follow the path to an entrance in the upper right corner. Inside you'll find three Borfes. Go downstairs and do not kill the Maduus as they turn into ghosts if you shatter the armor. If you have the MonkRobe you do not need to worry about the Curse they can put on you. Go upstairs on the right and push the light colored right crate down and the upper left one to the left to reach the doorway. Follow the only path around to enter another building. Go upstairs using the chimney and Hedyn will be around again (you can also heal your HP by sleeping in the bed here). Read the books for some information about Louran and how to avoid getting abducted by ghosts. Go back to the first room, find the hole on the right, slide down and collect the Holy Seal. You need this item equipped in order not to get taken by the ghosts.

Return to the square and enter the upper left passage to the West Side. Here you can see two zombie boys entering the building to your left. Follow them, watch out for the haunted tables, enter the chimney and at this point make sure that you have the Holy Seal equipped. Go down the stairs and with the Holy Seal in the equipment slot the two ghosts will let you be and do not send you back to the start.

Eventually you'll reach the North Side where you can see a chest in the fenced off area to your right, so we'll get it later. Inside the first ruin you can claim 178 Gems from the chest. You can view a hidden cut scene featuring Zombie A & B if you crawl under the table. After you watch it Yomi notices that the Zombies do not even know themselves that they are dead. There is another Magirock hidden on the basement floor of the left building at the top of this area. To the left of here is a stationary Maduu that cannot be attacked and for a reason as we will find out later. Climb two more stairs and crawl under the table in the room with the three Maduus to reach the backroom with a hidden Magirock.

Outside enter the top right building for a chest with your very first L.Bulb, which tastes terribly but heals 150 HP. From here go to the far south and you'll reach an isolated area on the Square again with the fifth (actually sixth with the one from the mirage) Magirock in Louran. Go back, enter the right home and kill the Zombie family to find another Magirock to the right of the dinner table. Next enter the home to the north of here, go down the stairs and head to the left to reach a small home that is completely isolated from the rest. Outside there should a chest with the STR potion. You should have entered all the houses of Louran by now, so go to the far right and Ark finds himself at the cemetery.

The cemetery is a very good training area each time you clean out all the Zombies you should gain at least 320 Exp and some dropped Gems. Also if you talked Temjin into taking his money within in the grave you can find 500 Gems (you call that wealth?) from the grave to the northwest. To the far right you can see Turbo. Talking to him isn't enough motivation so equip and use the Red Scarf to let him guide you towards Meilin. Indeed, she is hidden within the Maduu we came across earlier. After you unveil her the Zombies disappear and the nightmare is over. Outside you will meet Meihou who apologizes for Meilin's behavior. He also tells you that in order to get past the Lost Desert to the west you need to follow the directions given by the Nomadic people in the Nomads' camp. To the south of the Square is the entrance to Louran where you can find Hedyn for the third time.

**Nomads'**

Talk to the rightmost guy near the fire place outside for the directions

through the Lost Desert in an area called Teklama. You have to walk into

the following ways to reach the western exit:

1. Go West until you reach a triangle of boulders
2. Go South here until you reach a snake shaped of stones
3. Go Northwest until you reach some dragon skulls
4. Go North from here until you reach a giant skull; exit is here

Talking to the other Nomads tells you that Hedyn went past here just a while ago. Inside the upper right tent is a little speechless girl. The woman to the right is her stepmother as her actual parents seem to have disappeared. We'll come back later her for a mini-side quest in finding her real parents.

**Teklama Desert**

Follow the given directions and Ark should be able to reach the next

destination: Europe. The part where you have to walk diagonal is perhaps

the only difficult thing. The best way to get past this is by walking left

a few steps, then up a few steps and so on, because if you walk diagonally

up your horizontal movement is much greater than the vertical movement

meaning that you are straying off the correct path.
