<a id="s7-4"></a>
## 7.4. Resurrection of the Hero

<a id="s7-4-1"></a>

### 7.4.1. The rebirth of Ark

**Storkholm - Elle's place**

**Hidden Items:** 2 (159)

HeroPike - contained in Pandora's Box

HeroArmr - contained in Pandora's Box

Ark appears here as a baby and upperworld Elle is nursing him like a mother. She goes outside to get him some food, then the underworld Elle appears. This Elle was send by the Elder to kill Ark before he grows mature again. She takes him away and as upperworld Elle reappears she notices that Ark is gone.

At the location were we found the Pandora's Box in the underworld Elle is hesitating to kill Ark. Yomi appears and tells her to kill the other Elle as well, but as denoted by the music the resurrection of the hero is now inevitable. You get to hear Kumari, Ra Tree, Leim and Kingbird's voices. Next Ark himself is resurrected and with the merger of the upperworld Ark he grows in strength (not statistically, however).

After Ark's return underworld Yomi tells you about the Elder or better the Devil / Dark Gaia who will give rebirth to the planet after Ark is eliminated. Walk up to the underworld Elle and speak to her. Next Yomi comes into play and immobilizes Ark so he can take him out by himself, because Elle cannot bring herself to do it. Then Elle jumps in front and hold Yomi so they both get send back to the underworld again. In her final words she pleas to Ark to save this planet.

After both of them are gone go down to meet upperworld Elle. Talk to her and she shows you the other Pandora's Box identical to the one in the Underworld. Columbus found the arms of the Hero some time ago so he hid them in the village and the people in the village were the safe keepers of these arms. They all died so nobody could get to them.

Touch the box and another Yomi appears. This is the upperworld Yomi and he'll join you from now on. You get the legendary HeroPike and HeroArmr these are two more of the special arms that appear on the central pedestals. Their massive attack and defensive power are nearly unmatched. Elle will wait for you here, until the battle if finally over.

Outside a bird is waiting for you. It has a message tied to its beak and Ark automatically reads it. All the main characters went to Beruga's Lab Tower to the east of Siberia to stop this mad maniacal scientist. They wait there for you at the entrance.

**Norfest**

You could walk all the way back, but it would be better to just use a

BonePin to get transported to the world map. You should be able to get

anywhere on the map(if it's reachable at all). So I'll first complete all

the town expansions, before tackling the last dungeon with monsters.
