<a id="s7-4-4"></a>

### 7.4.4. Final. Return to Crysta in the underworld

<!-- MIXED -->

= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =

**WARNING:** This is the last saving place in the game. This is point of no

return. After you go down to the underworld you can only complete the final part of the game and watch the credits. = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =

**Portal**

Ark goes back to the place where you started your second mission. Meet

Columbus and save here! If you think that you are ready to complete the

final part go down the hole and return to the Underworld.

**Underworld**

It is pretty strange to get back here. Everything is locked except for

Crysta itself so go there.

**Crysta**

At first everything seems normal like usual. Elle isn't around however and

if you try to talk to anybody around here something strange happens. You

hear a strange sound, entire Crysta turns red and all the life forms

dissolve into Wandering Spirits. They will all try to hurt you, but don't

worry they won't drain HP. Visit the Elder and he tells you something. Ark

has learned more than he should have and the old coot requests you to come

outside.

The Elder tells you that everything around here including Ark is made of Crystal Blue. When the energy is depleted the replica of the Crystal Blue loses its form and returns to the wandering soul shape it once was. He also says that at the will of Dark Side you must die. The two of you make way to the Gaia Stone.

**Gaia Stone**

You start in an infinite corridor that represents the flow of time. You

are told to be in the underworld of the Sun itself. Dark Gaia then says

that he will fight for Earth's new beginning like you with real form. So

your battle against the Elder / Dark Gaia in a different form.

**Final Boss:** Dark Gaia

Phase 1 HP: ~500

**Exp:** 0

**HP:** 1000 · **Exp:** 0

Phase 2

-Phase 1- This last battle may actually take some time, because you can only hit the Devil when his upper body turns into a spiky ball and it must not be flashing. If both conditions are met you can try to hit it with any physical attack in your repertoire. Dark Gaia has several main attacks most of them are easy to avoid here is the list:

Orb of Light - You need to bounce this attack back with Rushing Gaia Rage - Attacks you with three beams just run around to avoid it. Also a spark denotes where the flash will hit. Sonic Boom - Easy to avoid on the extreme left / right edge of the arena Spiky Ball - When the ball flashes you must avoid it else attack Magirocks - Dark Gaia scatters some Magirocks to hamper your movements

First you need to bounce at least one Orb of Light back and he will make a comment. If your total attack is less than 120 this battle will prove to be very hard, but if it is over 160 you can take him out without too much difficulty. This is so because the damage increases quite a lot with each STR point. Here's a brief summary of Strength levels with the Slicing Attack that I tried:

115 total Strength = 5 Damage 135 total Strength = 35 Damage 155 total Strength = 115 Damage 180 total Strength = Instant Kill (level 50)

-Phase 2- The second and last phase of this battle is not that hard in my opinion. Dark Gaia has a different form and uses different attack. But still he is only vulnerable if he comes towards the bottom of the screen.

Light Beam - This attack halves your HP each time if you don't X-guard, if you X-Guard it does 1 to 3 damage every half second. Yellow Bolts - These projectiles come first vertical then they attack you horizontally Orange Bolts - Similar to the yellow, but can toast you Blue Bolts - Similar to yellow, but can freeze you

Your total attack strength needs to be at least over 140 to do any good damage on him. On the other hand I once beat him with one critical hit (level 50, though) so this proves how unbalanced this battle is. If your level is a bit too low you can't do any good damage and if it is high you go through as if the devil is just a mere Purple Huball! ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the Elder is finally gone a voice speaks to you, it tells you that your quest is truly at its end. Both Arks light and dark return to their respective worlds and our Ark is left all alone in Crysta. He contemplates together with Yomi whether he did the right things and after that Ark asks Yomi what he truly is. Yomi responds that all life forms originate from one being and Yomi is the kind of being any life form once was.

Light Gaia speaks to you and tells you that Crysta and the Underworld will dissolve now that Dark Gaia is gone. Light Gaia however grants Ark one more carefree day in the peaceful Crysta as it once was, before he started his adventure.

**Crysta - Ark's final carefree day**

On the next scene Elle speaks to you asking you were your thoughts went.

You can walk around and the Elder's place is now called "Ark's". The guys

inside never heard of a guy named Elder and the blue door is just the door

to the broom closet. Go into what once was the Elder's room and Ark thinks

of the moment that started the entire quest. When you are done enjoying

your last day as Ark he can go to bed to dream his very last dream (that's

a strange thought somehow). Ark dreams that he is a bird and flies to many

places.

As the credits roll by you get to see the flying bird in Ark's dream and it shows the progress humans make in their civilization and what lies beyond our current time. At the end the bird lands in the forest and upperworld Elle as she hears somebody knocking on the door. As Elle opens the door the words "THE END" appear.

========================================== Game Finished

- - - - - - - - - -

Total Hidden Items & Chests: 178 Total Magirocks (non Jap): 96 ==========================================
