<a id="s7-4-3"></a>

### 7.4.3. Stop Beruga once and for all

**Beruga's Lab Tower**

**Chests:** 1 (171)

Life Potion

**Magirock:** (96)

-The last rock is in the corridor with several Goblins, you can't miss it

Monsters:

Bloody Chariot, Cube, Figure Head, Goblin (C)

At the entrance you will meet 3 of the five invited people. Fyda and Royd probably went ahead already. If you wish to train here I recommend that you take a BonePin with you. There is a room up ahead where you can get massive amounts of Experience and Gems in matter of minutes, but it is only reachable after the crane section with Royd. So if you wish to retry after that point you need the BonePin to get back.

Talk to Meihou and he leaves you with Meilin behind. The two of you go up ahead and try to exit to the north. If you do this Meilin goes ahead and disables the security camera. In the next room she creates a camouflage so Ark can get past without being noticed. After that a huge crane appears, which is controlled by Royd. He lifts Ark by his head to the next section over there you meet Perel again. He takes out the laser beams so you can get past without any effort, when he's done he stays behind and lets you continue on your own.

A few screens further you meet Fyda again and together you use the levers simultaneously to continue. After doing so Fyda goes up ahead meeting you later again. Continue on past some more Goblins to find the last Magirock in the game. Up the stairs you will meet the strongest regular enemy in the game the Bloody Chariot. Make sure to beat it for 130 Exp and possibly 156 Gems.

Follow the route through several corridors from here and at the end you'll meet Royd again. He uses the cannon to take out the door up ahead. Go upstairs and Ark will find a room filled with more than six Bloody Chariots. First collect the Life Potion from the chest in Meihou's room (the NW one). He tells you that the four of them have to press a button simultaneously to open the shutter to the right. Your room is the SW.

This big room is the location where you can level up very easily. Go into Perel's room (or your own) then go down to exit to the main corridor. Immediately when you approach use the Slicer/Slider attack to take out the Bloody Chariot (it can be done in one hit), if you don't need money go back again into the entrance and repeat the process of killing this goon over and over again. This way I got from level 28 to 40 in very little time. These chariots drop so much Exp that you level raises in matter of minutes The problem is that this location becomes unavailable after reaching Beruga's Airship and we can't go back either so that's why we need the BonePin. When you wish to save while training use the Pin to get to Mosque, save there and start over the next time. If you are interested in reaching the maximum level (50) you can best do that here.

Anyway when you are done (try to get at least to level 35 for the final boss) press the button in your room to open the path to the airship. Go past the opened passage and slide down the big hole in order to reach his airship.

**Beruga's Airship**

**Hidden Items:** 7 (178)

Time Bomb (7x)

Monsters:

Bit, Bloody Chariot, Goblin (C)

Upon entering the ship you meet Fyda and Royd again. Fyda gives you 7 Time Bombs, which you have to place on each of the 7 computers on board.

1. Equip this item and use it with 'X' in front of the first computer here.
2. Go left, up the stairs, outside head south, inside again go up the passage, down the stairs and meet up with Fyda.
3. Plant two bombs here go back up and and past the enemies towards the stairs at the very back.

Down here plant two bombs, go back and follow either left or right path (the ship is symmetrical) and Ark finds a computer in the center of the hallway.

1. Retrace your steps to where you enter the center part of the ship for the first time from the left and go to the right at the end of the path you'll find the last computer and Royd should be here too.
2. Talk to him if you like and backtrack for the final time to that central part.
3. Go down this time and meet up with the dynamic duo.

After Fyda pushes the detonator you escape together to the southern exit and the three of you find Dr. Beruga here, for the last time.

Beruga compliments you on getting so far, yet you are still so far away. He tells you that the jetpacks you loaned from him to escape are computer controlled. Now that the computers are broken you can't leave anymore for the packs don't work anymore. Beruga on the other hand has (how did the scenario writers think this up) has jet nozzles in his soles allowing him to go airborne. Then suddenly the rear propeller starts rotating and Dr. Beruga is caught in the wind's suction. The screen turns black and then red for a split second denoting Beruga's death by his own machine.

After the light returns a gull is sitting near the end of the ship and it can't be a coincidence. Ark gets to go back for he has a job to complete. Therefore Royd and Fyda stay behind together to the bitter end. Talk to bird and choose the first option and Ark is going to be dropped off at Airsrock.

The airship crashes in South America near the Portal! The scientist who witnesses it sees the light of the Apocalypse in the explosion. After the short scene Ark appears to be safe and sound just below.
