<a id="s7-4-2"></a>

### 7.4.2. The fully expanded world Optional

**Nirlake (2)**

**Hidden Items:** 9 (168)

Letter(9x) - Get from the man at the entrance

I can't really call this expansion, but the town did change. If you help the people of Nirlake out of the dire situation to rebuild their village that went to ashes you receive 9 letters as a plea for money. Here is a list of all the people to whom you can give the letters to:

1. Nirlake - Will 2. Freedom - Bell 3. Freedom - Eddy 4. Litz - Fisherman 5. Loire - Pierre 6. Loire - Matis 7. Loire - Marily (at first she mistakes it for something different...) 8. Loire - Winery Boss 9. Britain - Rich

If you send all nine letters and you previously helped Mick with his Big Mick burger then the town will expand immediately after the ninth letter is given away. Also Will's shack gets moved to another area.

**Will's - after Nirlake rebuilt**

**Hidden Items:** 1 (169)

Airfield Plans

After Nirlake is rebuilt you can get the Airfield Plans from Will so Suncoast can improve its better reachable. Wonder why you can't get these anytime sooner in the game.

**Nirlake (3)**

Inn:

5 Gems

**Magirock:** 1 (86)

-To the right of Mick

You can buy the Pro Armr as a one time deal for 7890 Gems, which is good for an armor that protects against all ailments. Also this armor is one of the four special armors in the game. You should have all four of them by now. Walk up to the back of town and you'll find a Magirock just lying around.

-Tourist Information- You can go to the tourist information center and show them all the locations you've visited, when you have the camera equipped.

**Suncoast**

Show the old geezer in the top center building the Airfield plans and

Suncoast should expand really soon now.

**Suncoast (2)**

Inn:

5 Gems

**Hidden Items:** 1 (170)

WaterPin - cure the Asian guy in the inn

**Magirocks:** 7 (93)

-Reward for giving Airfield Plans

-Accompany the WaterPin (6x)

Go to the inn and use the Fever Medicine on the ill guy around here. You

have to give the medicine to the bride of the man and she will give Ark the

WaterPin in return along with the Magirocks needed to carry it.

You can also also obtain a different Magirock from the mayor how now lives in the top right building. Upstairs you can just collect if for free. Oddly, Litz does not want to expand some times. I do not know the cause of this but sometimes it just won't get an upgrade.

**Litz (2)**

Inn:

10 Gems

**Magirocks:** 2 (95)

-Top left corner of town (walk through the hidden passage)

-Home of Craftsman in the center of the entrance room

This expansion is presumably the only expansion Litz can get even though it is not on the highest technology level. There are two Magirocks hidden around here and there is no Tourist Information center so you cannot show them the pictures of the other cities. Above all Dr. Keinz doesn't give you a growth index percentage so this means that the town cannot improve more than this, which is in my opinion quite a bummer.

Oddly enough you can still get Fever Medicines from the hospital, even after you cure the Japanese guy in Suncoast. But there is nobody in the entire world suffering from a fever.
