<a id="s8-1"></a>

## 8.1. Magirock Locations

Below I'll describe the locations of all the Magirocks in the game. There are 96 of these to be found in any version and 1 additional rock in the original Japanese version. Some of the rocks become unavailable if you don't collect them before a certain event. I tried to list all of these events so you know when a rock cannot be obtained anymore.

Tower 1 / Cannot be obtained after reaching the Surface World - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1. Located on the second floor on the east side 2. On the third floor on the left elevated section 3. On the fourth floor near the entrance guarded by a Living Statue

Tower 2 / Cannot be obtained after reaching the Surface World - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 4. First room SW corner on the elevated section. 5. Second floor right elevated section in the SE corner. 6. Fourth floor on the left in plain sight

Tower 3 / Cannot be obtained after reaching the Surface World - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 7. Basement floor; get there by falling down the arrow platforms or stairs 8. Third floor in the back room with the Sleepless seal in the SE corner

Tower 4 / Cannot be obtained after reaching the Surface World - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 9. Left side of the screen, on the elevated section of Basement Floor 1 10. Floating island on the Second floor; reach it via the tightrope 11. 3rd floor in the upper right corner

Amazon - Ruins Area (World Map) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 12. Just in plain sight on this single screen field located behind the Soul

Ra Tree / Cannot be obtained after beating Parasite Boss - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 13. Left bottom floor; swim to the lower left corner to get it 14. Right bottom floor; behind the rightmost waterfall

Evegreen - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

15. - 18. Come along with the GrassPin as a reward from the Ra Tree (4x)

Grecliff - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 19. The most upper right entrance of the cliff 20. The first slide, use the vine to the left here to get it easily 21. North West corner of the room filled with Mini Quakers 22. After getting the Sharp Claws climb to the area with Borfe and chest with 87 Gems 23. Near the previous rock go down the slide and keep 'right' pressed

KingNest - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 24. & 25. Come along with the WindPin as a reward from Kingbird (2x)

Zue / Must get #27 before clearing the 3rd Altar - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 26. Area to the left of the 2nd Altar 27. Lower Right corner near Douma holding Soul #3 of the third set 28. Far south of the third Altar

Eklamata - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 29. At the start go to the far left to find it near a flower 30. After passing the river on the upper ledge to the left 31. From the previous rock take the upper right exit and enter the cavern 32. Just before falling into the dark pit, it is in plain sight

Lhasa - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 33. Comes along with the BonePin received from Lord Kumari (1x)

Safarium - Lion's Den - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 34. Win the Head hitting game

Neotokio / #36 cannot be obtained after Dr. Beruga releases Asmodeus - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 35. Inside the left room of the first left building 36. Become Noodles King by entering the eating contest

Hidden Forest Area - NE of Gobi (World Map) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 37. Walk to the left in this area and Ark finds this one with relative ease

Louran - Desert Mirage - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 38. On the main floor in the back room of Meilin's

Louran - Zombie Ruins - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 39. E Side lower entrance from Square inside first building 40. E Side upper entrance from Square inside first building 41. Basement floor upper left building N Side 42. 2nd floor upper left building N side (crawl under the table) 43. Isolated area of the Square, reachable from the N Side 44. Inside Zombie residence to the northeast of the previous Magirock

Hidden Area NE of Loire (World Map) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 45. Hardly hidden at all. Just walk to the northern wall to collect it

Loire Castle / Cannot be obtained after the castle closes (make Elle speak) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 46. Bottom part of the Pantry to the left of the Dining Room 47. In the same room of the tower as the Protect Bell

Norfest Forest - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 48. After Meilin joins you can find it in the next area to the right 49. North to the bridge area; top of the screen 50. Just before entering Storkholm, take the lower left passage

Loire Castle - Reopening after the king dies - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 51. Win it by completing the speed eating contest (eat more than 20 points)

Sylvain Castle - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 52. Jump from the tightrope to the small ledge on the first floor 53. In the Royalty chamber near the bed 54. Inside the right tower in the sewer area on the left side

Freedom - Harbor Area - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 55. Collect from the cabin near the bottom of the harbor

Freedom (1) / Cannot be obtained after Freedom expands - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 56. At Bell's, but only if you tell him the truth about Amanda

Freedom (2) / #58 cannot be obtained after 2nd expansion - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 57. Buy Kingbird's freedom for 5,000 Gems and go to his nest to find it 58. Back room of Stoma's place

Colorado River - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 59. Upon completion of the bridge you can find a rock on the bridge itself

Mouse's Sprinting Test - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 60. Complete the track in less or equal than 20 seconds

Penginea - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 61. Inside the first igloo to the left

Liotto - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 62. Clear the Cream-a-Cat game 63. Backroom of the Brazilian food store to the left

Mermaid Tower - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 24. - 69. Come along with the WaterPin as a reward from the Mermaids (6x)

New Zealand - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 70. Walk around on the map to find the hidden area

Cave - North of Scandinavia - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 71. Walk over the tightrope to the far right

Great Lake Caverns - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 72. Reachable after flooding the Douma room in plain sight 73. - 76. Come along with the HornPin as a reward from the Gossie (4x)

Great Lake Caverns - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 77. Top right corner in the back of the alley 78. Reunite the mute orphan Chija from the nomads' with her parents

Dragoon Castle / Cannot be obtained after completing this dungeon - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 79. Just before meeting underworld Elle in the dungeon to the south 80. To the south of the 200 Gems chest 81. Go down two floors from the previous rock to find it in plain sight

Mosque - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 82. Backroom top right corner home

Astarica / Cannot be obtained after awakening from this dream - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 83. On you path in plain sight in the corridor with Pupilas

Neotokio's Sewer - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 84. Pond area near the exit 85. Two areas after the last one in the top right corner

Nirlake (3) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 86. To the right of Mick outside his fast food chain factory

Suncoast (2) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 87. Reward for giving Airfield Plans 88. - 93. Come along the WaterPin; reward for curing the groom's fever (6x)

Litz (2) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 94. Top left corner of town (behind a hidden passage between the homes) 95. Home of Craftsman in the center of the entrance room

Dr. Berug's Lab Tower - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 96. In the corridor with several Goblins

```
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Neotokio - Before Asmodeus incident & Tenshi Souzou (Japanese version) only
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
97. Win the quiz by answering Yes/No answers
```
