<a id="s1-0"></a>

## 1.0. Version History

- Version 1.3 (28/04/2014) Still going strong in this fine new year! The year 2014 saw the release of Final Fantasy V for iOS and Android devices with updated graphics and slightly modified content. I have chosen to list all the changes in a handy chapter and keep the text of the walkthrough itself focused on the GBA game with the exception of some iOS/Android bits and pieces scattered throughout the document. I think this document can be used by both GBA players, who can easily skip the iOS bits, and iOS/Android players who will easily be able to identify what's different for them.

An important caveat here is the following. The Super Famicom and GBA games were, while I was writing this document, always well-documented. Their battle mechanics were laid bare. The new release however, changed some things around, nobody so far has bothered to crack it open and I'm not going to do it. This means that any iOS bits and pieces are derived from playtesting only, an inferior method of gaining knowledge. This means that the knowledge may be incomplete or wrong, I can only say I did my best to check all the findings several times.

Further alterations include: - Fixed some minor things in information behemoth 4.41.3 - Changed two instances of "Killer Cannon" into "Chaos Cannon" in section 4.57.1. Give instant-death explosions misleading names, why don't you. - I added a Monk/counter strategy to the Liquid Flame entry. - Added Attack and Multiplier information for (Strong) Attack monsters in section 7.10 (!Release) - Changed 'Specialty' to 'Special Technique' and 'Strong Fight' to '(Strong) Attack', to better fit with the nomenclature used in-game. - Fixed some helm/helmet errors. - Did a few runs where I tried to never die with any character. This helps bring into focus exactly what is useful to such a game and what is not, and what dungeons and encounters are particulary dangerous. The resulting tips and tricks I've acquired have made their way into this document. - Added a few notes on running from certain battles where it is either impossible or all but impossible for those without !Flee, !Smoke or Teleport spells. - Added a stat block for Vilia, the flower girl. - Quelb's special dish involves the slaughter of sheep.

- Version 1.2 (10/13/2011) In this exciting new though minor update, I made everything better! Here is how: - The boss strategy section on Leviathan was greatly expanded - Some info was added on Gilgamesh' character entry, since he became a playable character in Dissidia Duodecim - The Quicksave trick versus the Gil Turtle had a fatal flaw in it, and was subsequently removed since it doesn't work. - Rewrote the Dancer section since I took a longer look at the class and its options throughout the game. - Major breakthrough added in the Surgate Castle Sciences; the Inn is not usable as soon as you gain acces to Exdeath's Castle! This info was added for all of those people that like to sleep in dead king's guest chambers. You can stop e-mailing me about it already. - A few minor things: Regen works on the Undead, you can steal twice from Carbuncle, Berserk trumps "Entranced!", and some added info here and there about how special weapon properties interact with special attacks that work with those weapons such as !Mug, !Jump, etc. The write-up for !Bladeblitz and !Finisher were also expanded, and an imperfection in section 10.1 was corrected; Drakenvale is easily entered at the end of the game, so all monsters there are still to be found had you missed them earlier.

- Version 1.1 (06/15/2011) Everything that has a beginning, has an end. But everything that has a beginning also has an 1.1 update, and this is that update. Typos were fixed, and a superior lay-out for all walkthrough chapter headers were adapted. Some thing worthy of special notice: - A list of sailing encounters on the First World was added in chapter 4.15.1 - The hit routine of the Dark Arts' status ailment side-effect was discovered and consequently added (credits go to Deathlike2) - A mistake in the Minotaur strategy was fixed where I mentioned that the Counter support ability was disabled for the fight, while it is not. - Several creatures have physical attacks that you cannot Counter (and have some other zany behavior); this information has been added. - The Treasure Checklist in Section 10.3 now contains the treasures of the GBA-only content, completely mapping out Mr. Clio's monitored container contents. - Some shameful oversights in the sections about Omega Mk. II and Neo Shinryu were fixed. I won't say what they were.

- Version 1.0 (02/24/2011) Added the final three chapters detailing Omega Mk. II, Neo Shinryu and the Cloister of the Dead. The guide is done! At last I'm free! This is the first version to appear on GameFAQs.

- Version 0.95 (12/08/2010) Added Overworld encounters for the first few chapters of the game, added section 10.4, rewrote a few sections, added content on the Sealed Temple, Necromancer Job and abilities, littered the guide with 'funny' Scott Pilgrim lines, you know the drill.

- Version 0.9 (09/10/2010) Initial Release on the Collapse of Heaven and Earth, this is the document as it first appeared for the masses.
