<a id="s10-1"></a>

## 10.1. Bartz Klauser

**Name:** Bartz Klauser · **Age:** 20 · **Height:** 5'8" (1.76) · **Weight:** 128 lb (58 kg) · **Birthplace:** Lix

**Strength:** 27 · **Agility:** 28 · **Vitality:** 27 · **Magic Power:** 25

Bartz Klauser is the son of Stella, a girl from Lix and a man called Dorgann Klauser, who raised him after Bartz' mother Stella past away. They traveled a lot together, and it was Dorgann's dying wish that Bartz would see more of the world; Dorgann passed away three years before the start of the game. Bartz is fulfilling his father's wish by traveling around the world with his Chocobo companion Boco.

Bartz is the only character you get to give a name in Final Fantasy V, and is its clear protagonist. Bartz is portrayed a somewhat of a dullard in the new GBA translation, though this is not something that appeared strongly in the original game. He does not have many clear character traits, though he is afraid of heights.

Bartz is usually portrayed with swords in CGI material, one of which is the Brave Blade. During a significant event during the game, he attempts to cure a person with a Curaga spell, so if FFV and FFVA media is to be believed, Bartz takes a liking to the Knight and White Mage Jobs. In Dissidia, he is labeled as more of a Mime, mimicking the other character's attacks and even donning a cape during his EX Mode. His ultimate attack there is the Spellblade-Dual Wield- Rapid Fire attack, and during EX Mode he gains the Goblin Punch attack.
