<a id="s10-10"></a>

## 10.10. Gilgamesh

Gilgamesh starts out as the only shown officer of Exdeath's army, which is lying dormant until the dark warlock returns. His background is never given, his reasons for participating in Exdeath's army not revealed. He is a powerful warrior, but is played as the comic relief; especially in the GBA translation, they packed Gilgamesh full of all kinds of pop-culture references.

Gilgamesh is famous in this game for carrying that most elusive of equipment, the Genji Armor set. Genji Armor is portrayed as traditional samurai armor, all decorative and whatnot. Genji Armor is traditional samurai armor. According to some interview, Gilgamesh grew up in a village where the greatest warrior was given the Genji armor set. The accumulated sweat and blood of the warriors who had worn the armor made the equipment steadily more potent.

Gilgamesh would become quite popular apparently, as he features in a lot of Final Fantasy games after this game; especially in remakes. Gilgamesh is often seen chasing rare swords of various kinds. Gilgamesh makes a playable appearance in the fighting game Dissidia Duodecim, where he stumbles upon the world of the game and grows determined to find Bartz. He find Bartz and engages him in battle, but is ultimately defeated. Gilgamesh also encounters Exdeath, who is defeated by him.

Gilgamesh attacks with various swords and other weapons in the game, which feature both weapons from FFV(A) and other Final Fantasy weapons. Gilgamesh wields the Excalibur, Excalipoor, Masamune, Battle Axe and the Chicken Knife, opposed to Bartz' Brave Blade, as well as the Nagitana (the spear he carries in his FFV(A) pre-morph sprite) and the Genji Blade, a reference to the Genji equipment he carries in this game.
