<a id="s10-9"></a>

## 10.9. Exdeath

Following the defeat of the terrible being Enuo and its creation, the Void, at the hands of Twelve Warrios and the Twelve Weapons, the land was purged of evil. The Great Forest of Moore became the place where malevolent souls were imprisoned in. A single towering tree was used, but something went wrong. Filled with the hatred and contempt of the evil spirits inside, the tree took on a will of its own. This tree is Exdeath.

Exdeath was sealed away by Ghido the Sage for 500 years, but 30 years prior to the game's unfolding, Exdeath got free. He collected demonic servants to do whatever, and was faced by the Warriors of Dawn. They cornered him after he had left the world he was born in. It is on this other world that Exdeath was once again sealed away, this time by the power of the Crystals of that world. But evil never rests, and while Exdeath's physical form is imprisoned his terrible and dark will holds sway over the lands...

Exdeath in other games:

Exdeath has made a number of appearances in other games, though they probably shouldn't be considered canon or whatever.

In the multi-Final Fantasy fighting game Dissidia Final Fantasy, Exodus the 'Entropic Adversary' is one of the few villains who truly wishes to destroy everything by means of the Void. He is a slow unit whose strength lies in counter-attacks and magical defenses.

In Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, Exdeath is renamed Exodus. One of the 'Totema', a pillar of a fake world, the Exodus tree must be defeated in order to destroy the fake world. As an enemy he is defenseless, but at as Totema on the side of the protagonist, Exodus can be summoned by Viera to deal MP damage to all enemies. On both his hands, the Zodiac sign of Libra (Scales) can be seen.

Exodus returns in Final Fantasy XII as an Esper, a powerful Scion of Darkness. Again tied to Libra, Exodus is the Judge-Sal, a being created to judge the value of all things in the world. He grew unattached to the world however, and felt it should be destroyed. For this rebellion, he was cast down. Note that his inclusion as a Scion of Darkness retro-actively makes him one of the Lucavi from Final Fantasy Tactics.
