<a id="s12-0"></a>

## 12.0. Credits; People I love because they've done things I wanted them to do

It's a little-known fact that I can't really do anything. When 'writing', I usually just slam my head on the keyboard, or type down passages from books I think I like based on what other people say. In fact, I know just enough about the English language to play Leisure Suit Larry 1. After entertaining myself for about three years with dadaistic prose, it is then left to my proofreaders and other fine folk to make some sense out of they 1 mB text file of nonsense. "This section is called Drakenvale, you might want to talk a bit about Drakenvale in it" they might say, or possibly "stop talking about prophylactics, it's likely to alienate the average reader". So the people below are the ones you should really like for this document, as they are the enablers, the editors, the feeders.

Samurai Goroh is a smart man. What's more, I have strong suspicions he is, in fact, a wizard. He does stuff with text files that I can only dream about. He trims 'em, he checks 'em, he perfects 'em. He knocks walkthroughs right out of the park. But does he know how to love?

Silktail is, perhaps, not a man at all. He swoops down, gives information, then leaves. He might be a robot, a well-designed one with a broad programming on the subject of Final Fantasy V and a pleasant absence of the need to express itself socially in any way.

Chen. I must admit I don't much care for his "If you don't spend days leveling for the sole purpose of leveling you have no patience and are weak" attitude he did list a few treasures I would have otherwise never heard about.

Deathlike2 from the Slick Productions forum, for figuring out the Dark Arts hit routine.

majesticmystic, proofreader! A predecessor in that he wrote a walkthrough for this game before me, he knows his stuff. Whenever you find me talking about Bard songs and piano tunes, that's the mystic talking; which is somewhat shameful, since I've been playing the piano for more than ten years...

MajinKain0 for contributing in the GameFAQs topics. I don't really know him.

There was a long time during which the 0.9 release was up at my website while kindred souls glanced over the guide. Feedback was posted at GameFAQs, then used to improve the document! A time-tested procedure. Thank you, Aussie_BBQ, Gurges, guwa, JSH357, jvtruman, LinkRJB, Locke1620, MalcolmMasher, shadow chao 10, ShadowMan787, suicune girl, winterking heish, zeekybookydoog and Rainbow Kirby.

I think that's it. If you feel that you are missing from this list, that's because you were even more helpful than all those other guys and girls and I didn't want you lumped together with 'em.

I'd like to thank two FFV players that I've never talked to, called T-Hawk and Sulla. They both have done things to this game that some would consider to be... unnatural. They've defeated this game with a single character restricted to any class that exists in this game and have thusly ensured the discovery of many strange things and strategies. I'm so impressed by their ridiculous antics that I wouldn't dream of implying they probably have trouble talking to people outside.

For various additions and suggestions after the first official release, I'd like to thank: Reuben Stripes, Jae Shin, Bliztkreig and NonSubwayJared.

It is, of course, useless to thank one's significant other in a file like this; the magnitude of my girlfriend's influence can't really be described, for that is the way of things. So I'll limit myself to the pragmatic. For the last months of this document's creation, I had no computer. This was done on hers. So, y'know, without her this couldn't have been here.

```
**********************************
Disclaimer and legal necessities
**********************************
```

This was written in 2010, by Djibriel, and is copyrighted by me.

You are unauthorised to present this document, partly or whole, as written by somebody else as the authors of the respective bodies of text. You are unauthorised to change anything in this document for any other purpose then personal use without my explicit permission. You are unauthorised to come to my house and eat my children without my explicit permission.

All rights reserved.
