<a id="s2-0"></a>

## 2.0. Introduction

On the morning of April Fools' Day, 2005, I woke up in a sexual addiction treatment center in a suburb of Philadelphia. Nah, I'm playin'. That never happened to me.

This, oh reader, is a walkthrough for FFVA, and by that is understood the game 'Final Fantasy V Advance', not for instance the 'Florida Fruit & Vegetable Association', who likely rued the day they opted for that specific abbreviation.

You know, for a long long time, FF V was the black sheep of the series. Not that hard to understand; though it was released in Japan as soon as December 1992 and the ROM was distributed around that time as well (egads, both the internet and emulation are older than you think!), people didn't know how to read moonspeak. And even after its very first fan translation surfaced as early as 1997, written at the time by individuals known as Shadow and David Timko, this was three years after FF V's successor was released and the internet was still a relatively desolate place. A tumbleweed rolls by.

The Great West first got its official look at FF V in the form of Final Fantasy Anthology. 'Dis be 'round 1999. The PSX port was a horror to behold. A lot of criticism concerning the translation roared quite justifiably, the load times were bad, bugs weren't fixed, low music quality. Faris talked like a porn actress pretending to be a pirate mocking her own background. The masses cried in unison. A baby in the back burps in disapproval.

The official release never reached the West because it was deemed too difficult. FF V never profited all that much from the emulation scene, even though some kind of consensus has been reached over the 'standard' translation patch for the Super Famicom version (DeJap's). Nobody ANYWHERE has EVER liked anything ported to the PSX, so no surprise there. But at the very end, Final Fantasy V was able to ride the wave all the other 8- and 16-bit Final Fantasy games rode as well; the transition from console to handheld. Everybody was bored with coding NEW games for the Game Boy Advance, so there you go. The thing's 32-bit anyway.

Still emulation for a large part obviously, but Square-Enix had put a decent amount of effort, thought and new content into the game this time. The extras were actually kinda neat, the translation was handled as if Final Fantasy V was an extra long and interactive episode of Futurama (spot-on as far as the demographic was concerned) starring Philip J. Bartz and killing Movers while bungee-jumping beats the crap out of killing Movers while wasting your life away behind a controller and your third bag o' Cheetos that day.

Decent documentation hasn't existed until instructrtrepe, saw the FF V ROM for what it was (kids, this was all pre-GBA); a largely uncharted landscape full of monsters, treasures and nubile women. Now, we've got pretty much everything we need; info, a canon translation, the interest of the masses.

This document you're looking at, it's a weird project. I started this in 2006. Writing this, it's 2010. That's FOUR YEARS during which I've started the project, abandoned the project, re-started the project, abandoned the project, etcetera and ad infinitum. Every time I vowed to finish the thing this time, re-read the document, made changes throughout, then forgot all about it again in favor of Odinknowswhat. Working on these things is my passion, don't ask me to explain it... but I can honestly say that without the continued support and kind e-mails from around the world, I never would have pulled through on finishing this, the Final Fantasy V Advance Walkthrough and Battle Tactics Guide.

So, hat's off to you!
