<a id="s3-0"></a>

## 3.0. Set-up of the document, and slang you're going to start recognizing

Slang:

Ctrl + F:

That most holy of combos, the road to salvation. Had enough of the ridicule of those more adapted to today's lifestyle than you? Have you been bossed around by the 'elite' for far too long? Don't take it out on the naturally superior, but Physician, heal thyself: Ctrl + F is the search function. Learn to love it like your long-lost little brother.

ST:

Single-target. It targets a single target.

MT:

Multi-target. It targets multiple targets, in most cases all.

A primary action ability is the action ability listed under 'Attack' and is unique to a Job. The Thief's primary action ability is 'Steal', for instance. You can't change primary action abilities. In this document, a (primary) action ability is indicated with a '!' marked in front of its name.

A secondary action ability is what appears if you choose an action ability to fill a character's empty ability slot. Secondary action abilities can be a great or a horrible idea, depending on the mechanics behind it. Some Jobs function better with a secondary action ability than the Job it came from did. In this document, a (secondary) action ability is indicated with a '!' marked in front of its name.

A support ability can be set, but won't appear in-battle. This is because a support ability is either passive or reactive, not something you choose to do. Counter lets you counter-attack physical attacks, for instance, or Vigilance prevents back attacks.

Every monster has a !Special Technique, which can have any number of facets. At the most basic, a !Special Technique is a modified physical attack, and physical modifiers are used to avoid it if possible. However, a !special technique can also merely set a status instead of dealing damage, pierce Defense unlike normal physical attacks or be unblockable and thus not subject to physical evasion. A monster's !Special is indicated by a '!' in front of its name.

I make a distinction between four type of Jobs. This distinction is only strictly relevant as far as equipment options go. Stat-wise there are often similarities between Jobs in a selection.

Heavy Armor Jobs are capable of wearing Heavy Armor, Clothes, Heavy Helmets and Shields. They generally have high Strength and high Stamina, making them perfect for Front Row melee position. Heavy Armor Jobs include the Knight, the Mystic Knight, the Berserker, the Dragoon, the Samurai and the Gladiator.

Clothes Jobs are capable of wearing Clothes and Light Helmets. They can be considered melee units as well, though they tend to specialize in different ways of helping the party. Their Strength and Stamina tend to be lower than Heavy Armor Jobs, but they make up for it with higher Agility and special skills. Clothes Jobs include the Thief, the Monk, the Ninja and the Ranger. The Monk here is an exception to the expected stat lay-out, since the Monk's Strength and Stamina surpasses even the Heavy Armored Jobs.

Robe Jobs are spellcasters capable of wearing Robes and Hats. They have weak physical stats but specialize in their respective schools of magic. Robe Jobs include the White Mage, the Black Mage, the Time Mage, the Summoner, the Geomancer, the Bard, the Necromancer and the Oracle.

Hybrid Jobs are capable of wearing Clothes, Robes, Light Helmets, Hats and sometimes Shields. They are those that combine magical properties with physical utilities. Their stats are often mediocre across the board, with fewer high and low points. Hybrid Jobs include the Blue Mage, the Red Mage, the Chemist, the Dancer and Cannoneer.

Since the Mime and the Freelancer have broader equipment selections than any kind of Job pool and they take on properties of the other Jobs, they cannot be classified.

Walkthrough chapters are governed like this:

**Location:** The Location given is, where possible, the same as the location given · **I take:** p

Opponents: Enemies encountered and/or fought, often with a (#) given to indicate their Bestiary entry. On occasion, opponents are fought that have no entry in the Bestiary; in that case, no number is given (-). Rare but possible is the situation where a monster is actually distinct according to the game itself, but both add to the same listing in the Bestiary. No distinction is made between the monsters in this case, as it would serve no purpose. An example is the Goblins you fight with Bartz alone as your first battle and the Goblins you fight on the Overworld Map a bit later; stats and dropped items are different, but both add to the Bestiary listing of 'Goblin' at #1. I will talk about the Bestiary in the walkthrough itself, guiding you towards a complete one; section 10.2 of this document contains a Bestiary checklist if you want to keep track.

Container contents: Any item that can be found when facing a chest, urn, barrel or similar container is given here. These are the items that count towards your Treasure %, with five exceptions: two Cottages in Tycoon Castle, a Blitz Whip in Jachol Cave, a Cottage in Surgate Castle you can only obtain when on Planet R and a Cottage you can find in Carwen, but only when on Planet R. These are also the five treasures Lone Wolf steals if you release him; these items are handled by a distinct event in the code. Section 10.1 of this document contains a treasure checklist if you want to keep track of these treasures; when following the document normally, you'll get all the treasures you'll need for that hard-earned 100% treasure hunter's super happy fun feeling.

Miscellaneous items: Any item that you can obtain through means beyond the silly container just-lying-around practice. These items include items given to you by NPCs, but mostly those items you can steal from enemies or those that are dropped by foes, either randomly or always. These treasures do not count towards your Treasure %

**Blue magic:** Any Blue spell you can obtain from the opponents listed in any

given section, some will require !Control or application of the Confuse status.

**Features:** Anything noteworthy that didn't fit in the other categories, this

mostly includes spells you obtain from NPCs or books and Pianos.

Final notice: there are three things any first-time player will want to be aware of that should be considered throughout the game; the Bestiary (which has no in-game effect, but people want it perfect), the treasure percentage (which as a collector's game has no other effect than giving you the items that you find) and how often you run, as fleeing powers up a blade called the Chicken Knife and debilitates a blade called the Brave Blade. I'll keep you informed about these ever-important issues throughout the document.

On with the show!
