<a id="s4-1-4"></a>

### 4.1.4. Prelude; the lands around Tule

Opponents: Goblin (#1), Killer Bee (#5), Nutkin (#6), Stray Cat (#7), Gatling (#16), Big Horn (#17), Bandersnatch (#19)

Grasslands near Tule: 35 % Goblin x 3 35 % Killer Bee x 2, Goblin 23 % Nutkin x 3 6 % Stray Cat x 4

Grasslands south-east of Tule, near and in the forest: 35 % Goblin 35 % Killer Bee x 2 23 % Goblin x 3 6 % Killer Bee x 2, Goblin

First off, before you enter Tule itself you should be aware of the fact that you're now on the Overworld Map without Boko, allowing you to fight random encounters. Speaking of Boko, it appears that Bartz has forgotten all about his best friend. We'll pick him up later.

You can fight Goblins on the Overworld Map now. They're of a slightly different variety than the Goblins you defeated earlier; they'll rarely drop a Leather Cap now. Note that both varieties will make the same Goblin appear in the Bestiary, this being the more recent one. Goblin'll also randomly use a move called Goblin Punch, of which I'll explain the details later. It's basically a normal but unblockable physical attack with a few quirks.

Killer Bees fly and attack physically with Attack and !Needle, which shouldn't be confused with the enemy attack Needle. !Needle inflicts 1.5 damage.

Nutkin are chewing on their nuts while skirmishing, so they slowly regain HP during battle. Randomly a green 1 will pop up to indicate their incredible recovery rate. One hit should kill them; they attack with Attack and !Incisor. !Incisor never misses and ignores Defense, watch out!

Stray Cats merely attack physically, sometimes with !Tail. Unassuming.

Lands near Torna Canal: 35 % Bandersnatch, Big Horn 35 % Bandersnatch x 3 23 % Bandersnatch 6 % Gatling

The enemy Bandersnatch can appear if you land on one of the thin strokes of land between Tule and the Wind Shrine. Bandersnatches are powerful creatures that may deal anywhere between 60 to 100 damage with their normal physical attacks and !Body Blow, their special technique. You'll want to brawl with them a bit for the Bestiary entry if you care about those things, but later; they almost one-hit kill you now unless you start leveling. Quite frumious, they are.

Gatlings will normally just Attack, but if you hit them with an Attack of your own they'll counter with !Needle, a more powerful physical attack. They'll rarely drop Gold Needles.

Big Horns attack with Attack and (shocker) !Horn, which is a more powerful physical attack. If you hit them with a Fire-elemental attack and they survive, they'll use Flee immediately to leave the battlefield, but you don't have any Fire-elemental attacks at this point.

This is the first time you're free on the Overworld Map to fight your own battles the way you see fit. No doubt some guy has leveled to 99 right here. Doesn't that knowledge make you feel great about yourself?
