<a id="s4-1-3"></a>

### 4.1.3. Prelude; Faris Scherwiz

It all seemed so nice and cozy back when it was just one of the forces of nature calling it quits for the day. You've spent the last few hours fighting through packs of Goblins while the ground collapsed underneath you and chasing the elusive road to this mysterious Tule through a cave filled with monsters. And now there's pirates.

A cave filled with murderous thugs inspires Lenna to suggest making your location known, while Galuf remains convinced this is an unnecessarily complex path to certain death and suggests trying to steal the magically sailing pirate ship. And Bartz, let's face it, your hair day isn't that grand either. Poor guy.

The only two pirates to be seen in the near vicinity of your party are both sleeping, which is a huge plus. The right one wakes up for a moment if you try and talk to him (you stupid!) but you can rest assured there are no lasting consequences, like with unsafe sex.

Walk the plank the good way and enter the ship! Obviously you could just grab the wheel and make a go for it, but it might be wise to check the entire thing out before sailing to the horizon with it. Within the ship there are two doors; the left one leads to a locked jail door leading to an empty jail, the right one houses yet another sleeping pirate, mumbling about Syldra or something. We'll deal with him later; time to make a run for it.

Trying to grab the wheel, Bartz notices he can't get the wheel to turn, and while Lenna and Galuf are trying to figure out what's wrong with Bartz, they're discovered. Lenna quickly reveals her royal identity since it seems like a good idea to her; captain Faris Scherwiz seems more interested in her jewelry, though. The pirates don't even have to TRY before forcing the entire party to the ground, tied and ready to be locked up, so yay for the plot powers of our heroes so far.

In the night: lamenting.

In the morning: action!

The prisoners are freed much to the dismay of Faris' crew, the order to sail to the Wind Shrine is given and the secret behind the ship's ever-lasting sailing powers is revealed to be a huge-ass sea...thingy, we only see her head. Her name is Syldra. Time to get this show on the road, savvy?

Yeah, you'll want to tell the helpful first mate to buzz off. We're going to Tule first. There's all kinds of neat stuff to do there. It's to the west. You may choose to skip this entire section and dive into the Wind Shrine unprepared (which still doesn't make it too hard) but there's really no good reason to do so.
