<a id="s4-1-5"></a>

### 4.1.5. Prelude; the town of Tule

Container contents: 100 Gil, 150 Gil, Ether, Leather Shoes x 2, Phoenix Down x 2, Potion x 2, Tent x 2

Features: Piano

In the meantime: Tule! Check out Faris' equipment; he's got a Leather Shield on him and a Dagger, a more powerful knife than the Knife. Give him the Leather Cap you have and enter Tule. All the pirates will swarm into the Pub for the brew of sunshine known as grog and Faris won't stay behind. On a side note, make no mistake about the exceedingly disgusting nature of grog. Seriously, look it up. Hey, at least it helps fight off scurvy.

Should you ever try to leave town, Faris'll automatically rejoin you using his pirate senses.

The purple wizard-guy near the entrance of town wants to take you to the Greenhorn's Club. It's a good idea (although you could've walked yourself); it's on the southern-west edge of Tule. Claim your status as a beginner upon entrance an you'll be granted passage. There's a lot of info given here, but we're here for the treasure. I'm here for the info, remember?

The crate contains a Tent, the barrel contains a Phoenix Down and the grey pot contains a Potion. The bottom green wizard mentions the existence of fake walls and sure enough, there's one leading around the grey pot to the chest you couldn't normally reach. It contains an Ether. The other chest contains 100 Gil. Time to go upstairs! Here's, a green wizard is standing over a chest, claiming he has a gift for you. Opening the chest nets you a battle with a Goblin! Kill it.

Miscellaneous note: the first time you talk to the green wizard guy here, he'll say: "Inside this chest is a present from me!" and every subsequent time he'll say: "A-hua-hua! Sometimes monsters hide in treasure chests. From now on, be careful!". It doesn't matter when, or even if, you open the chest at all. Poor old guy is probably as blind as a bat.

After the battle you'll get some Leather Shoes, which increase both your Defense and Magic Defense by 1. All right! Time to get out. Talk to the green-haired lady to open up the passage; mention you're no beginner anymore when you're on the other side of the counter and she'll forcefully throw you out. Good times :P

- **Time to explore town. In the barrel to the right of the Inn lies 150 Gil. To**
  - the north, a few crates and barrels stand together. One of the barrels contains
  - a Potion and a crate contains a Tent. The big house to the far north belongs to
  - Zok, the man who built the Torna Canal and a personal friend of the king of
  - Tycoon. He doesn't seem to be home, however. To the far left of Zok's house
  - there's a bush between all the trees where you can find a Phoenix Down, and to
  - the far right is a crate over by the watermill which contains another pair of
  - Leather Shoes. Equip 'em. Let's enter the Pub now.

Faris is upstairs. One of the pirates mentions how he loves his captain, which is odd, since he's a dude. And Faris is also a dude. And two dudes, in a simplistic high fantasy setting like this one, that just don't fit.

On stage, there's a piano. Woohoo! You must play it. Long story short, if you play all eight pianos in this game you unlock two more Songs for your Bards. Short story long: [PIANO-LINK]. Anyway, the Girls Of Little Shame are in your way. Sit down on the speshul seat to get them off stage and on your lap. For free! Now, you can reach the piano. You suck. Let's go upstairs and sleep off the shame.

Faris the hippie pirate captain beat you to it. Bartz decides to check in on him. And then Galuf. And then they fall in love with the sleeping image of Faris the hippie pirate captain. What's the rating on this game again? We haven't cast a single Fire spell yet and the word 'flaming' already comes to mind. Regardless, before things can escalate Faris wakes up and locks the door, which seems like a good idea. Maybe some fresh air will do Bartz and Galuf some good. Gets rid of all the pheromones.

Let's examine the shops:

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Broadsword           280 Gil
  - Rod                  200 Gil
  - Staff                200 Gil
  - Buy one Broadsword and leave it at that. The Rod is only useful if you have
  - spells to cast and aren't going to use physicals anyway since it boosts your
  - Magic Power by a tiny margin (1). The Staff is only useful if you really,
  - really have no other choices. You'll get a free extra Broadsword in a very
  - short while, so don't feel bad for the final character with a weak weapon.
  - Have Galuf equipped with the Knife; since his Agility's the lowest of your
  - characters, he attacks the last and thus the least. Don't let the game's
  - Optimize function replace a Knife with a Rod; since their damage formulae are
  - different, the Rod will be useless while the Knife will be not useless.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Leather Shield        90 Gil
  - Leather Cap           50 Gil
  - Leather Armor         80 Gil
  - What you're lacking in your inventory is three Leather Shields and three
  - Leather Caps. You can even buy three Leather Caps, but since you're finding one
  - for free in a little while, I see no reason to buy it here (although 50 Gil's a
  - joke, too).

- **Magic Shop:**
  - Fire                 150 Gil
  - Blizzard             150 Gil
  - Thunder              150 Gil
  - Cure                 180 Gil
  - Libra                 80 Gil
  - Poisona               90 Gil
  - I'll discuss them all when you get to use them, okay? I do suggest buying at
  - least the Blizzard Black Magic spell and the Cure White Magic spell so you can
  - cast at least one spell in both classes once you obtain the means to do so.
  - Blizzard is the best out of the three Black spells since it's the only one to
  - hit an elemental weakness in the next dungeon.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Tent                 250 Gil
- **to rent a building on its own; instead, it has to share with the Inn. Potions**
  - heal 50 HP, Tents restore 1000 HP and MP, but only on the Overworld Map and on
  - Save Points. You'll get five Potions for free in a short while; another Tent or
  - two couldn't hurt, though.

We're done in Tule; let's go find that Wind Shrine all the cool kids are talking about. Sailing on the Overworld Map, it's possible to approach the Torna Canal that you pass on your way; the gates are locked, though. You can fight its monsters in front of the gate (they're not at all quality gates, you see), but there's nothing to gain for you so I don't suggest it.
