<a id="s4-10-3"></a>

### 4.10.3. Ice to see you, Shiva

Opponents: Elf Toad (#25), Ice Soldier (#26), Jackanapes (#30), Ice Commander (#248), Shiva (#249)

Miscellaneous items: Frost Rod (guaranteed Shiva drop)

Blue Spells: Pond's Chorus

[SHIVA-LINK]

Shiva is an Ice spirit sealed within the castle by the purified water of the Water Crystal. How exactly a flexible matter such as water could ever be used to seal anything is beyond any guess, though. Shiva is waiting for you in one of the towers of the castle. Shiva, obviously, being a recurrent magical entity throughout the series.

Enter the castle, descend to the lower floor and leave this room through the door to the south. Outside, you have the option of walking into the water. Do so. To the top, there's a waterfall. It's concealing the entrance to the water tower of castle Walse, so enter in the middle to find it.

Castle Walse Watertower: 58 % Elf Toad, Elf Toad, Elf Toad 42 % Ice Soldier, Ice Soldier

The enemies here are ones you've already seen earlier and know how to deal with. Burn the soldiers, freeze the toads, steal some Mythril Swords if you could use some cash.

Now, simply ascend the Water Tower until you reach what is quite obviously the resting place of Shiva herself. The impossible green-flame energy sphere thing? That's her, all-right. Interact with it to allow Shiva to speak for herself. Naturally assuming you're wanting to dominate her, she attacks you. Before you engage her, by the way, make sure that you have two characters in the Front Row and two in the Back Row, regardless of their Job.

**Level:** 11, HP: 1500, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Phoenix Down (rare), Hi-Potion (common) · **Win:** Frost Rod · **Absorbs:** Ice · **Weakness:** Fire · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Slow · **Attacks:** Blizzara

Shiva

**Level:** 4, HP: 600, MP: 200 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Mythril Sword (common) · **Win:** Heavy Sword (rare) · **Absorbs:** Ice · **Weakness:** Fire · **Creature:** Humanoid · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Toad, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack

Ice Commander Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop

Shiva is surrounded by a whole slew of Ice Commanders, too. These are all of the same elemental type as Shiva, so they absorb Ice and are weak to Fire-elemental attacks. You can steal Mythril Swords from them, and they rarely drop a Long Sword after the fight, so they're basically just Ice Soldiers with a different name, without the random Ice spellcasting and a whole lot more durability. They're vulnerable to everything from Pond's Chorus, Flash, Sleep to Poison. The fight isn't over until you've killed them too, so might as well start attacking them now.

Shiva herself knows only two attacks, and they're both Blizzara. Every odd turn she will target every character in the Front Row, every even turn she'll target every Back Row character with it. It's that simple.

```
*****
Fira strategy
*****
```

How to deal with this? First, let loose with any status ailment-inducing attacks you might have. The Blue Flash attack is a wise idea, as is an MT'd Black Sleep spell. You likely won't hit all of the Commanders, but you'll be glad to get some of the physical violence out of the way. If you have a Time caster, the Slow spells works on Shiva but it's not very important. Now, power up any Mystic Knights you might have with a Fira spell on their sword and get the show started. Pick apart the snoozing and/or blinded Commanders first. MT'd, it takes only two Fira spells to kill them, and that doesn't need a Flame Rod. A slash with a Fira sword does a lot of damage, and with Two-Handed it's almost an affront to God.

The same goes for Shiva. Keep yourselves healed (took me hours to come up with this brilliant strategy, let me tell ya) and dish out the damage. If your level is 11, a Blue Goblin Punch definitely hurts, and anything Fire-related is obviously a good idea. Before long, Shiva'll be defeated and your Summoner will obtain the power to summon Shiva.

```
*****
Non-Fira strategy:
*****
```

Without having gone to Karnak, you don't have the Fira spell yet, you can't cast it on your swords and you haven't obtained the defense upgrade either, so it's all a little difficult. Strategy is vital here. If you have Flame Rods and aren't scared of breaking them, feel free to disregard all the text below, of course... Before you engage, make sure the Front Row/Back Row ratio is 2/2, and have a Blue caster and a White caster.

Start the battle off with Flash from the Blue caster. Don't attack yet, just keep yourself healed. Now, hit the Commanders with Pond's Chorus (and possibly Sleep spells to stall until you can hit them with Pond's Chorus). After Shiva is surrounded by three toads, you've quickly eliminated the physical threat. Now, start attacking Shiva. If your party is primarily physical nature at this point, it' might be a good idea to clear out the Commanders first to remove the Back Row advantage of Shiva.

If you don't have Flash and Pond's Chorus either you're probably either stuck breaking Flame Rods or seriously looking at going to Karnak anyway, as while I'm sure some asian dude could figure out a way to defeat Shiva without Fire 2 OR those Blue spells, I'm not going to try for you.

EDIT: Some asian dude sent me a way to defeat Shiva without Fire 2 OR those Blue spells! Should you find yourself at level 11, Goblin Punch will deal 800% damage, taking her out quite fast. All that's left is the Ice Commanders, but a combination of Flash and Pond's Chorus should make them doable.

When you're done, time to get to Karnak. Try out Shiva versus the random encounters there; Ice Soldiers will absorb Shiva's attack but that's all.

A thing to consider; a Mythril Hammer Two-Handed Berserker is capable of killing a Jackanapes (this is due to the fact that Axes and Hammers only consider 25 % of the target's Defense). So even if you don't want to flee, the 1000 Gil x 2, Speed spell and Elven Mantle are obtainable. It's going to cost you quite a lot of Phoenix Downs and luck, though.
