<a id="s4-10-1"></a>

### 4.10.1. Karnak county

Opponents: Aegir (#31), Zu (#32), Wild Nakk (#33), Grass Tortoise (#34)

Miscellaneous items: Elixir (rare Zu steal and rare Zu drop), Turtle Shell (guaranteed Grass Tortoise drop)

Blue Spells: ???

Forests: 100 % Wild Nakk x5

West of the Forest: 35 % Aegir x3 35 % Zu 23 % Zu, Aegir x2 6 % Grass Tortoise x2

East of the Forest: 35 % Grass Tortoise x2 35 % Zu, Aegir x2 23 % Aegir, Grass Tortoise 6 % Zu, Grass Tortoise, Aegir

Aegir are not very interesting other than the fact they have a Special Technique called !Tentacle that adds the Old status. Take care of them with fast and furious violence. The Old status gradually decreases all of your stats (Strength, Agility, Stamina and Magic Power), but not your level. Also note that while HP is normally tied to Stamina, in-battle modification of Stamina doesn't affect your current or maximum HP total.

The massive Zu birds have over 849 HP. 850 HP, to be precise. They have a rare (1/16) Elixir drop and an even rarer (10/256) Elixir steal, but since they have nothing else you could potentially get one from every Zu you encounter. The odds are 1/66 for every Steal attempt, though, now that you aren't yet boosted by the Thief Glove accessory. Their special technique is just called !Critical Attack, so you'd think it's just 150% damage; but it's a meanie in disguise since the attack is unblockable and pierces Defense.

The Wild Nakk wolves that inhabit the woods have a 33 % chance to use the Blue ??? spell every odd round. Make sure to learn it here as there's no reason not to; note that ??? won't get its name to appear when the Wild Nakks (or you) cast it; it'll just look like an alternative physical attack. Wild Nakks are weak to Fire-elemental attacks, so when you have a Fire Rod equipped MT Fire spells are their demise. MT Fira spells don't require Fire Rods to be fatal, obviously. Wild Nakks have some Magic Defense, so if the attack isn't barrier-piercing it'll have trouble killing them. The Wild Nakk x 5 monster formation you'll always encounter in the forest gives you 625 Gil, which is quite a hefty sum for little trouble.

??? is a non-elemental attack which deals (max HP - current HP) damage. In English, that means the more damage you've taken the more damage you'll do with ???. It's a fairly useless spell on the whole as you'd be better off trying to recover by means of Vampire or a Hi-Potion should you find yourself in a situation where ??? would be worth casting.

Grass Tortoises are merely notable for their glaring weakness to Ice-elemental attacks (Blizzard, Blizzara, Shiva) and the fact they drop a Turtle Shell every time. You'll find use for Turtle Shells in the future, but they are useless at the moment. Don't sell them!

It's a straight-forward route all the way down to Karnak. The town of Karnak and Karnak Castle are to the south-west, but you'll have to take a little detour to the north-east to get there. When you reach Karnak, it seems it's quite a little dictatorial community: passage to the ship is prohibited, there's a big wall to hinder progress and passage to Karnak Castle is also prohibited. Let's dive into town and hear what's buzzing.
