<a id="s4-10-2"></a>

### 4.10.2. The town of Karnak

Features: Piano, and... I'm not giving anything away, but don't drop the soap while you're there...

What's buzzing is this: the wall is there to stop annoying scholars coming from the Library of the Ancients who claim exploiting the Fire Crystal is, in fact, bad. I'm sure the Queen will listen to US, no worries. We're a group of unlikely heroes, why shouldn't she?

Don't forget to visit the Pub for some schmoozing with the locals and a fine piano for you to play.

Furthermore, an NPC on the streets is boasting about the ridiculously inexpensive weapons and armor Karnak has to offer. Let's dive into the shops then, shall we? The Magic Shop seems closed for the day, but that doesn't mean we can't take abuse of the new weapons and armor Karnak has to offer us.

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Mythril Knife        112 Gil
  - Mythril Sword        220 Gil
  - Mythril Hammer       262 Gil
  - Flame Rod            187 Gil
  - Frost Rod            187 Gil
  - Thunder Rod          187 Gil
  - Flail                195 Gil

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Mythril Shield       147 Gil
  - Mythril Helmet       137 Gil
  - Mythril Armor        175 Gil
  - Silver Plate         150 Gil
  - Silk Robe            125 Gil
  - Mythril Glove        150 Gil
  - Silver Armlet        125 Gil
  - Okay, here's the deal. When you try to Sell something, nothing special happens.
  - When you don't and exit the screenor do anything or try to buy an item, you are
  - halted by the fact that Karnak guards carry you away, into Karnak prison. If you
  - buy something, the price that was listed will be paid and you'll obtain the
  - weapon in question. That Mythril Hammer is far and away the priciest item the

iOS/Android: This incarnation of the game allows you to purchase more than one copy of a selected item at this point. You can buy Mythril Hammers at a meager price of 262 Gil per mallet, then sell them back later for double that amount to double your Gil pool. If you buy 99 of them, your profit equals 25938 Gil. A neat trick!

At any rate, you'll quickly find yourself in a jail-cell. Doin' your time (it's a second or 15) will cause the white-haired guy in the jail next to you to walk over to the wall and blow a hole in it. Talk to the guy to learn his identity.

You quickly learn several very important facts. Meet Cid Previa, an engineer working for the country of Karnak. He used his knowledge to amplify the crystals of Tycoon, Walse and Karnak for the good of us all, not knowing it was, in fact, for the BAD of us all. Trying to prevent the Fire Crystal from shattering like the Wind Crystal and Water Crystal, he was put in jail by the queen of Karnak. And now he's here, being freed by the Karnak Chancellor as - gasp thrice - a crack has appeared in the Fire Crystal. It's probably too late, but they've finally started to listen to the voice of reason. Cid gets you out of jail too. And you were just about to get a sweet prison tattoo...

Now what was this talk about werewolves earlier? A werewolf came out of the meteor?

At any rate, Karnak Castle is open to your wanderings. Two points of interest: the Fire Crystal is the driving power behind the Fire-Powered Ship and is located in the basement of Karnak Castle. However, by the power of the same inconveniently placed flames that stop you from reaching any of the chests you see, nobody can access the Fire Crystal. The only way to reach it is through the Steamship, but it's been overrun by monsters much like the Wind Shrine. Also, Queen Karnak is nowhere to be seen, a fact overshadowed by the significance of the cracking Fire Crystal but odd nonetheless.

When you try to leave the castle, the werewolf you've heard about a few times tries to enter the castle but is quickly chased off. Why is it that odd and mysterious characters appear always when one of those blasted meteors land?

Now, the shops in Karnak are open again for you to exploit, but the prices have been raised significantly due to the possible financial instability that looms over Karnak. To compensate, the Magic Shop has opened its doors.

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Mythril Knife        450 Gil
  - Mythril Sword        880 Gil
  - Mythril Hammer      1050 Gil
  - Flame Rod            750 Gil
  - Frost Rod            750 Gil
  - Thunder Rod          750 Gil
  - Flail                780 Gil
  - If all is well you should have all the Mythril Knives and Mythril Swords you
  - need, but if this is not the case, here's where you buy them. If you are
  - planning on using a Berserker in the next dungeon you should definitely buy
  - a Mythril Hammer, too. You don't have to buy anything else, as you shouldn't
  - need more Flails and there's no specific reason to buy Rods. You could break
  - Frost Rods versus the next boss creature for illegally huge amounts of damage
  - though, so if that's your cup of tea then buy one or two for that very purpose.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Mythril Shield       590 Gil
  - Mythril Helmet       550 Gil
  - Plumed Hat           350 Gil
  - Mythril Armor        700 Gil
  - Silver Plate         600 Gil
  - Silk Robe            500 Gil
  - Mythril Glove        600 Gil
  - Silver Armlet        500 Gil
  - What's there to say about all this? Every character, no matter what Job he or
- **she is currently wielding, should get a near-full upgrade from the Armor Shop**
  - in Karnak. Mythril Shields for everybody that can equip them, Mythril Helmet,
  - Mythril Armor and Mythril Gloves for the Heavy Armor class characters, Plumed
  - Hats, Silver Plate and Silver Armlets for the Clothes classes and Plumed Hats
  - and Silk Robes for your mages. It's very simply and very nice. For some reason,
- **this shop didn't start selling Plumed Hats until after the breakdown of the**
  - economy. Maybe pimp hats are in high demand now that Karnak's legal job market
  - has crashed?

- **Magic Shop (Black):**
  - Fira                 600 Gil
  - Blizzara             600 Gil
  - Thundara             600 Gil
  - Poison               290 Gil
  - Sleep                300 Gil
  - Fire                 150 Gil
  - Blizzard             150 Gil
  - Thunder              150 Gil
  - The four new spells here are Fira, Blizzara, Thundara and Poison. If you have
  - little money left and don't really want to sell anything, buy Fira and Blizzara
- **and nothing else. Blizzara and Cura from the White Magic shop really are the**
  - priorities for the next dungeon, and Fira is just really really helpful versus
  - Shiva. Fira, Blizzara and Thundara are simply stronger versions of the basic
  - elemental spells of the Black Mage; Poison is an ST attack that sets the Poison
  - status. On Spellblade, Fira and its brethren are stronger as well, but only
  - versus targets weak to the element. Poison Spellblade turns the weapon into a
  - Poison-elemental one; it will set the Poison status as well upon a successful
  - hit.

- **Magic Shop (White):**
  - Cura                 620 Gil
  - Raise                700 Gil
  - Confuse              650 Gil
  - Silence              280 Gil
  - Protect              280 Gil
  - Cure                 180 Gil
  - Libra                 80 Gil
  - Poisona               90 Gil
  - Cura and Raise are the priorities for now if you're low on money, else the
  - Confuse spell is one you don't really want to skip. Raise revives a character,
  - much like Phoenix Down; Confuse is an ST spell that sets the Confuse status,
  - which is useful to disable an opponent temporarily and/or learning certain Blue
  - spells.

- **Magic Shop (Time):**
  - Gravity              620 Gil
  - Stop                 580 Gil
  - Haste                320 Gil
  - Mute                 320 Gil
  - Slow                  80 Gil
  - Regen                100 Gil
  - Three new Time spells for you to buy: Gravity, Stop and Haste. Gravity deals
  - (current HP / 2) damage, but will miss when the target is Heavy. Stop sets the
  - Stop status; it'll last quite a while, but will be very quickly worn out if the
  - target is Heavy. Note that Gravity is a grand spell for an upcoming boss, so
  - don't pass it up!

- **Item Shop:**
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Tent                 250 Gil
- **If you're done and fully healed (that's what the Inn is for!), buy some Eye**
  - Drops (especially if you don't have any Silver Specs), save your game on the
  - Overworld Map and head into the Fire-Powered Ship. It'll be fun and adventurey
  - there!

Oh, wait, no, there was still Shiva back in Walse Castle, and since she'll be immediately helpful in the Fire-Powered Ship we should definitely get her. Trace back to the meteor and eventually to Walse Castle. You could sleep at the Inn of Walse to regain your health before doing so, obviously.
