<a id="s4-11-1"></a>

### 4.11.1. The Fire-Powered Ship

Opponents: Crew Dust (#37), Poltergeist (#38), Defeater (#39), Motor Trap (#40), Liquid Flame (#251)

Container contents: Cottage, Elixir x3, Green Beret, Moonring Blade, Mythril Glove, Phoenix Down, Thief's Gloves

Miscellaneous items: Ether (common Motor Trap steal), Speed Shake (rare Defeater drop)

Features: World Map

Blue Spells: Flash, Self-Destruct

It seems the Fire-Powered Ship is sucking away the power of the Fire Crystal. Stop the cause, and the Fire Crystal may yet be saved. It's time to quickly dive into the Fire-Powered Ship and shut down the engine. Let's do it! You'd think that with all the destructive technological genius of Cid, they simply could have set off a bomb on the ship, but nobodies mentioning anything of the sort. You may counter that the Fire-Powered Ship is, like, totally special and needs to be preserved, but it's either a fancy boat or the benefits of fire for the entire world.

Bulkhead 35 % Crew Dust x 2 35 % Crew Dust x 4 23 % Defeater, Motor Trap x 2 6 % Crew Dust, Defeater x 3, Motor Trap x 2

Bulkhead (Ramps) 35 % Crew Dust x 2, Defeater, Motor Trap x 2 35 % Poltergeist, Defeater, Motor Trap x 2 23 % Crew Dust, Defeater x 3, Motor Trap x 2 6 % Defeater, Motor Trap x 2

Bulkhead (Thief's Gloves room) 58 % Poltergeist, Defeater, Motor Trap x 2 42 % Crew Dust x 2, Poltergeist

Bulkhead (Lever room) 35 % Poltergeist x 2 35 % Crew Dust x 2, Defeater x 2, Motor Trap x 2 23 % Defeater, Motor Trap x 2 6 % Crew Dust, Defeater x 3, Motor Trap x 2

NOTICE: All formations with two Motor Traps will lack the Motor Trap enemies when you encounter them. They will appear only when you have killed a sole Defeater on the battlefield. When you kill one together with other enemies (including other Defeaters), Motor Traps won't appear. If you kill the last Defeater with a Counter attack, Motor Traps won't appear.

An NPC in Karnak talked about the Crew Dust and its tendency to cast Flash when alone. 'Tis true. If you didn't manage to extract Flash from the Headstones, here's where you'll definitely want to learn the attack. Crew Dust are weak to Ice-elemental attacks so MT'd Blizzara spells and Shiva clean major house. Crew Dust are also weak versus Wind-elemental attacks, but it's just that you don't have any truly powerful Wind-elemental attacks right now. Two Aero spells will take them down. They'll normally attack with physicals only, with the occasional !Sap thrown in (causes the Sap status). Another fun thing about Crew Dust is how they can't avoid Blue spells; they'll always hit. So eh... Flash and Vampire will never miss or something, Aero is unblockable anyway.

Poltergeist absorbs Ice-elemental attacks but is weak to Wind. Its !Lick attack, which sets Confuse, is really annoying so dispatch them quickly; Aero really helps out. Normally Confused character will stick to physical attacks directed at your party, but Confuse may also cause !Black and !White casters to cast spells at the 'wrong' targets. This makes characters with !Black somewhat of a liability.

Motor Trap only appears when a sole Defeater is killed. Motor Trap has several interesting attacks. First, there's Gamma Ray, an ST attack that sets Stop on a target. When hit by a Lightning-elemental attack such as the Black Thunder spell, they'll cast Self-Destruct which deals the caster's current HP worth of damage while killing the caster. Self-Destruct can be learned by those with Learning set, but it's quite useless as a battle strategy.

Defeaters only attack physically. They're weak to Ice-elemental attacks. They may drop Speed Shakes, items that can only be used by the !Drink command you can't have yet. Take note that when you encounter a single Defeater or when you leave a single Defeater on the battlefield and then kill it, it'll summon Motor Traps to give you trouble.

In general, characters that can summon Shiva are great here since the ice mistress will destroy any creature except for Poltergeist. Those who can cast Aero are also handy, since ST Aero kills Poltergeists and Crew Dusts. Together, they should breeze through the dungeon.

Walk down the wooden interior of the Fire-Powered Ship until you suddenly encounter the technic rooms. Here's where the monsters start appearing. When you enter, you can see a white door; it leads to a chest containing a Mythril Glove. Now, ascend the stairs and get up the stairs to the far left. It'll eventually net you an Elixir. Now, get back down. In this room you can still find a chest with a Cottage, and the only stairs you haven't used up to that point gets you another Elixir. Now, leave through the other white door, to the top-right of the room, to find an elevator. See the red switch?

On this new weird metal ramp, there's a Phoenix Down to the right. If you haven't picked up the World Map in the Ship Graveyard you can find it here as well. Also, another elevator.

Now, this is just getting needlessly complex! There's a pipe to the left of you. Seriously, who designed this thing? Cid, obviously, but why did he go bonkers during the process? A completely useless conveyer belt keeps you from opening a chest, too.

Follow the pipe, white door, elevator, and now there are multiple options. Here's what they all go to:

1 2 3 4

1: Takes you back to a point you've already been. Useless. 2: You'll want to take this one last, as it continues the dungeon. 3: Nets you the chest you couldn't obtain earlier. It's a pair of Thief's Gloves! 4: A new sub-area where you eventually find a Green Beret. Nice.

Get the Thief's Gloves first. Only Thieves (aside from Freelancers) can equip these lightweight gloves; they add more Defense than the Silver Armlet and double your chances of successfully obtaining an item with !Steal and !Mug. You now steal with 80% succes rate! They make sure that the Thief itself will forever be the superior robber, even if !Steal or !Mug is set on another Job.

Get the Green Beret (for your Thief/Monk/Red Mage/Blue Mage) by entering pipe #4, then proceed to the right and throw yourself down #2. Before going through the white door, follow the stairs, flip the red switch and find a spiffy new weapon for the Thief. The Moonring Blade deals the same amount of damage from the Back Row and is powerful enough to remove the need for Barehanded, so stick another ability on your Thief and put him or her in the Back Row. The Moonring Blade has a substandard hit rate of 95%, which is one of its few downsides.

Continue down the logical path. Don't step on the conveyer belt, you don't want to go that way. The other white door takes you to a Save Point: use it!

This room is a final last switch puzzle before the boss, so have fun before it gets too serious. The puzzle is easy; just flip every switch you can reach once when you reach them, except for the very bottom one which takes care of you wanting to return. There's a chest with an Elixir that you easily grab if you just flip every switch once. Now, enter the white door to finally find the engine in the Power Room.

Oh, so there's Queen Karnak! And she's not nice to you now! Gosh, after doing stuff to King Tycoon and possessing Garula, that malevolent force we're trying to stop sure likes to find itself some high-profile lackeys. At any rate, by some logic I have yet to grasp, fire comes out of the engine and attacks you.
