<a id="s4-11-2"></a>

### 4.11.2. The battle with Liquid Flame

Yeah, there's no telling what happened here. Maybe Queen Karnak has awesome Fire-manipulating skills and that's why she's being controlled, in turn causing the flames from the engine to attack you. Maybe she was just a guard here and the power from far beyond controls the fire, who knows. At any rate, there's a flame monster to cope with now.

**Level:** 19, HP: 3000, MP: 100 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 15 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Win:** Flame Scroll · **Absorbs:** Wind, Fire · **Nullifies:** Water, Poison · **Weakness:** Ice · **Special Technique:** !Rush: Barrier-piercing · **Special Technique Effect:** Unblockable · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Confuse · **Attacks:** Attack, !Rush, Blaze

Liquid Flame (Human)

**Level:** 19, HP: 3000, MP: 30 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 30 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Win:** Flame Rod · **Absorbs:** Fire · **Nullifies:** Water, Wind, Earth, Holy, Poison, Lightning, Ice · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Ray · **Special Technique Effect:** adds Paralyze · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Confuse · **Attacks:** Attack, !Fingertips, Fira

Liquid Flame (Hand)

**Level:** 19, HP: 3000, MP: 50 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 15 · **Evasion:** 30%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Win:** Flame Bow · **Absorbs:** Wind, Fire · **Nullifies:** Water, Poison · **Weakness:** Ice · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** 1.5 damage · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Confuse · **Attacks:** Fira, Magnet

Liquid Flame (Whirlwind)

Here's the deal, and it's a very simple one. Every form will randomly use one or two attacks, and will perform an especially nasty attack when you damage it, after which it'll revert to another form. Here we go:

Normal attacks: Pre-change counter: Human - Attack, !Rush, Blaze Blaze Hand - Attack, !Ray Fira (ST) W Wind - Fira (on itself) Magnet

I don't believe we've been over the Magnet attack before; odd as it may seem on an opponent such as this one, all that Magnet does is set the affected party member in the Front Row. If it already was in the Front Row, no effect will occur. Flame is like a Fire-elemental Breath Wing; it deals 25 % maximum HP damage. When in Human form, Liquid Flame's special !Rush is unblockable and ignores Defense.

Human - 20 % Evasion Hand - 10 % Evasion, immunity to Ice-elemental attacks (including Blizzara- enhanced swords), is Heavy (Gravity doesn't work) W Wind - 30 % Evasion

Liquid Lame (LOL!) starts of in its human form. The entire point of this battle is that every single time you damage Liquid Flame it deals an especially nasty attack and changes form. Thus, you'll want to have as few hits as possible, with as much damage output as possible. The Big Four when it comes to damage are Frost Rod-boosted Blizzara spells, Frost Rod-boosted Shiva summons, Two- Handed Blizzara swords and...Gravity! Gravity cuts the amount of current HP of Liquid Flame in half, dealing up to 1500 damage when Liquid Flame is undamaged. Note that Gravity doesn't work on the Hand form, as it is Heavy.

iOS/Android: In this version, the Liquid Flame is always in the Back Row. Booh. You'll find Blizzara Spellblade effects lacking in damage compared to magical attacks.

Note: Obviously there's the option of breaking Frost Rods versus the Liquid Flame; while released Blizzaga spells do enough damage to utterly destroy Liquid Flame in two hits, I don't think it's necessary in a normal game and it's just going to cost you items/money which other strategies don't. If you find yourself playing a single class challenge or something, it's a win ticket; you can also simply change to a Time Mage, have it cast Gravity, absorbs the first Blaze attack that will never kill anybody, then shatter an Ice Rod to kill the flame.

Start the battle off with a Gravity spell, and heal up from the Blaze attack that is its counter. Mystic Knights are faster than Time Mages, so you should probably already have cast an Blizzara spell on any swords you may have wanted to imbue. If the Hand was called (that bloody thing!), have a neutral physical attack change it again (hey, your Clothes class character good for something too!) and attack whatever the result is with a heavy Ice-elemental nuking. It should be close to defeat now, so heal up from whatever damage you may have taken and deliver the final blow.

There is no good reason to not have either Blizzara or Gravity, and that's basically all you need (Two-Handed Blizzara swords and Shiva are variations, really) so this pretty much the strategy you should follow. Two White or Red casters are supremely useful to be able to restore HP as quickly as possible. For some advanced FFVA science, note that the hand only performs weak physical attacks. Since counter-attacks are never countered, a party full of dormant Monks will counter this thing into oblivion while Liquid Flame will never switch forms anymore.

Of course, you could simply rough it out without carefully planning your violence; as long as you have the Cura spells to counter Blaze and Fira with, you shouldn't be in too much trouble. In this case, I should mention the fact that all parts are vulnerable to the White Confuse spell and that the W Wind- form very easily runs out of MP, so you might want to sit there and wait for it to run out of MP the first time you see it so you definitely have a brief moment of rest when you encounter it in the future.

It's a toss-up what the best dropped item is; the Flame Rod is quickly usable but is for freaking sale already, the Flame Scroll is a 200 Gil item you'll be able to use in the near future one single time and it'll be a while before you'll be able to wield the Flame Bow within a Job, at which time you'll easily have the money to buy one. I'd pick the Flame Bow simply because the most expensive item, but it's entirely up to you.

After the fight, we're hurried to go see the Fire Crystal. Funnily, if you trace back your steps at this point and talk to Cid, he'll give no notion to the fact that you've stopped the engine and urge you to, in fact, go stop the engine ;) After having endless fun with the conveyer belts once tied to the engine, I suggest you walk into the pipe and save the world already. Go on!

I suggest you simply stand helplessly by while yet another crucial pillar this world is resting on crumbles before your very eyes.
