<a id="s4-13-1"></a>

### 4.13.1. Three Fire Crystal Jobs

If you want some in-depth explanation of the three new Jobs, you can check out more info on the Ninja, the Beastmaster and the Geomancer here:

[NINJA-LINK] [BEASTM-LINK] [GEOMANCER-LINK]

For now, let me suffice by saying the following. The Geomancer's !Gaia ability is great for mages, as it lets them magically attack with powerful damage output without using MP. The Diamond Bell is worthless, so the Main Gauche is a great equip for them. If you managed to steal any Gaia Gear, the Geomancer's Earth-elemental attacks will be boosted by 50%.

The Ninja is awesome all around; their powerful Ninja Scrolls are only hindered by the Ninja's low Magic Power. Stick !Blue or a high-level magic skillset on the Ninja to raise it's Magic Power and make the damage really fly. They are inherently able to wield two weapons; when you have a support ability that lets them equip better weapons than Knives, you can increase their physical damage output as well. Barehanded is a great support ability for them, but not to replace their blades with punches. The highest damage output is obtained by simply using Barehanded its Strength boost with the dual Knife capacities of the Ninja. Note that Goblin Punch is based on menu-listed battle power, so Goblin Punch will use the battle power of both weapons combined! Nice.

The Beastmaster is able to !Catch monsters who have 1/8 their maximum HP or less. When a monster is caught, !Catch will chance into !Release, which turns the caught monster loose on the battlefield for it to use a single attack. The monster will use its own stats. Beastmaster's have a lack of offense in general, so Barehanded is a great support ability. The Whip will have a 50% chance of setting Paralyze to opponents with the Magic Beast nature. If you want to use !Catch, the Blue spell Death Claw immediately puts the target creature in a weakened enough state to make !Catch work. Repeated Gravity spells from the Time skillset also works.

The Beastmaster will also learn !Control after a total of 60 ABP, which will let you control a monster. If you return below deck of the Fire-Powered Ship and use !Control on a Motor Trap, it is able to use Missile, a Blue spell that deals 75% of the target's current HP damage. !Control is vital in learning a few Blue spells in this game, so make sure to learn it if you want a full Blue skillset. I would strongly advise you take the time to turn one character into a Beastmaster right away and learn !Control ASAP. For various reasons, I advise this character to not be Galuf.

A few quick pointers on !Catch: physical attackers are your main source of damage, as they will always use the incredibly powerful (Strong) Attack. It's real name is 'Attack', but a man's gotta differentiate when a man's gotta differentiate. For other effects:

Mani Wizard Death Undead Husk Break Gaelicat Float Zu Breath Wing Deals 25 % max HP damage, Wind-elemental

**Fun fact:** Breath Wing always hits, and ignores every check except for elemental

ones. Four released Zu birds will tear apart any target, regardless of HP, instant death immunity, Heavy nature, the works.
