<a id="s4-14-3"></a>

### 4.14.3. The battle with Byblos

**Level:** 24, HP: 3600, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 30 · **Evasion:** 30%, Magic Evasion: 20% · **Steal:** Dark Matter (rare), Luck Mallet (common) · **Win:** Iron Draft (always) · **Absorbs:** Water, Wind, Earth, Holy, Poison, Lightning, Ice · **Weakness:** Holy, Fire · **Creature:** Magic Beast · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Paralyze, Berserk, Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, Armor, Confuse, Drain, Toad, Magic Hammer, Dischord, Web,

Byblos Wind Slash

Byblos was once found near the Wind Shrine, some thirty years ago, and was taken to the Library of the Ancients and sealed there after what we can assume was a long battle with Ifrit. He's loose again now, so it's time to stop him.

**st turn:** Web, Magic Hammer, Battle · **nd turn:** Battle, Confuse, Wind Slash · **rd turn:** Magic Hammer, Battle, Web · **th turn:** Dischord, Wind Slash, Battle

Some new attacks here. Web sets Slow, easy as that. Magic Hammer is a Blue spell that halves the target's MP. Wind Slash is easily Byblos' most dangerous attack; it's a multi-target Wind-elemental attack that can hurt as much as 260 (Clothes characters) to 170 (Gaia Gear Magic characters).

When Byblos is hurt to the point of 800 HP or below, he'll start countering your attacks. Any physical attack will be countered with a 33% Protect spell on Byblos' self, any Magic attack will be countered with a 33 % Toad spell on the caster and any other attack will have a 66 % shot at provoking a Drain spell, which is quite nasty as it deals around 170 damage.

The two biggest weaknesses Byblos have are the Fire element and its lack of Heavy nature, the latter of which can be exploited with Death Claw, Missile, Gravity and a Released Page 32 its Banish spell. Banish will instantly kill Byblos, Gravity and Missile will deal tremendous amounts of damage and Death Claw will reduce Byblos' HP to a single digit. Note that it also adds Paralyze, so if you kill Byblos when he's Paralyzed you won't get his little goodbye speech. Some other things that work are a Beastmaster Whip's Paralyzing powers (especially in tandem with Slow, which makes the status last longer) and Remora's Constrict.

On the Fire-elemental weakness; Fira is stronger than Ifrit, even if the latter is hyped a little versus Byblos. Twohanded Fira swords deal incredible amounts of damage but are made less effective by Protect in the end. You have at least one and possibly more Flame Scroll(s); Ninjas can Throw them for great amount of damage, especially when a Magic-boosted action ability such as !Black 1 is set on the Ninja.

You don't really need to learn Magic Hammer as it's not that good of a spell, but if you want to here's it to learn. Don't frustrate your progress because of it; you'll have plenty chances in the future, and you won't have a good reason to use it before learning the spell is made possible by an easy random encounter. You can try to Steal as well; a Mallet is pretty crappy, but Dark Matter (although useless now) can be an item of great power in the future.

If you've killed Byblos un-Paralyzed, he'll say:

Arrrgh! So, this is the end... but only for me. Very soon, the master's seal will be blown wide open!!!

If the final blow was dealt by Ifrit's Hellfire, he'll say:

Ifrit...! The seal... You've... Very soon, the master's seal will be blown wide open!!!

We've fought against being controlled by the dark nameless entity, and normal monsters so far. However, Byblos is the first powerful demon we face who is actually supporting his 'master'.

When Byblos is ashes to ashes, dust to dust, Mid'll take you out of the Library, only to abandon you in search of his grandfather. Let's follow him; Mid mentioned how he could get the Fire-Powered Ship running again which certainly would be useful for us.
