<a id="s4-14-2"></a>

### 4.14.2. The Library of the Ancients and the battle with Ifrit

Opponents: Page 32 (#45), Page 64 (#46), Page 128 (#47), Page 256 (#48), Ifrit (#253), Byblos (#254)

Container contents: Ether, Ninja Suit, Phoenix Down

Miscellaneous items: Dark Matter (rare Byblos steal), Green Beret (rare Page 32 steal), Ninja Suit (rare Page 256 steal)

Summon Spells: Ifrit

Blue Spells: Aera, Level 5 Death, Magic Hammer, Moon Flute, Off-Guard

Everything's a mess lately, and the Library of the Ancients is no exception. Cid's grandson, Mid, is missing, which is especially alarming since the books in the dark halls of the Library of the Ancients have been taken over by monsters increasingly often. In past times the Summoned Monster Ifrit would burn books possessed by monsters, but for some reason he threw in the towel as well. Our mission is to find Mid, as nobody else seems to be able to help us out...

On the second floor is a pot containing water from a Spring of Recovery, and all the way upstairs, near a furnace, three books await you. The left and middle ones are tomes of ancient wisdom (or whatever) while the right book shows you exactly what all this talk of possessed books is all about.

Page 32, Page 64 (common) Page 32, Page 64, Page 128, Page 256, Page 128, Page 64, Page 32 (rare)

Page 32 looks like a living gargoyle of some sort, and wields the Blue Aera spell. It has a Green Beret as a rare Steal, so if you have a place for any more of them, try to go for it. Weak to Fire-elemental attacks like all pages. It will use the Banish spell when Released, allowing it to possibly one-shot the difficult boss at the end.

Page 64 is the most lethal of the four pages as it wields the Blue spell Level 5 Death, which immediately kills any character with a level divisible by 5. It can also only be learned when the attack actually works, so if you find yourself at level 16 you won't be able to learn it now. If you have a party of level 15 characters, I suggest you go train outside until one or more (but not all!) of your characters has reached level 16. Take the level 15 character(s) in as Blue Mages and watch them get killed. Win the battle, heal up (or vice versa) and you've gained knowledge over the thing. Page 64 has Silver Specs as a rare Steal, which shouldn't excite you.

Level 5 Death in this dungeon works on both Page 64 and Page 128, but at 22 MP it's a bit pricey to use often.

Page 128 fails to deliver in both Blue spells and rare Steals, and has none in either category. As a common steal, however, it has an Ether, which is pretty useful to carry around in a game where MP can see depletion. It can use Slimer, which sets Slow and the Sap status. Weak to Fire, blah.

Page 256 is obviously the grandest of pages. Every other turn, it'll use Moon Flute on your party, which anyone equipped to do so will immediately learn. As a Blue spell Moon Flute targets the own party, but Page 256 turns it against you. As a rare steal, it has a Ninja Suit, which is equal to the Mythril Armor in defenses but can also be equipped by Clothes classes, adds a respectable single point to your Agility and isn't nowhere near as heavy. If you were to !Control a Page 256, it can use Off-Guard, a Blue spell you can learn. Off-Guard halves the target's Defense and Magic Defense, making upcoming attacks more damaging. Not a vital Blue spell to be honest, but it can't hurt.

Dark rooms: 35 % Page 32, Page 64 35 % Page 64, Page 32, Page 64 23 % Page 64, Page 256, Page 32 6 % Page 32, Page 64, Page 128, Page 256, Page 128, Page 64, Page 32

Ninja Suit room and the room leading to it: 35 % Page 64, Page 64, Page 64 35 % Page 32, Page 32, Page 128, Page 128 23 % Page 128, Page 128, Page 256 6 % Page 32, Page 64, Page 128, Page 256, Page 128, Page 64, Page 32

Other rooms: 35 % Page 64, Page 128, Page 128, Page 32 35 % Page 32, Page 64, Page 128 23 % Page 128, Page 64, Page 256, Page 128 6 % Page 32, Page 64, Page 128, Page 256, Page 128, Page 64, Page 32

Since you'll only be fighting one enemy at the time, any Berserker would be glad to fight here. The Geomancer's !Gaia ability will often call up Ignus Fatuus, which despite its random nature is Fire-elemental and will often kill a page in a single shot. Setting !Gaia on a Black Mage or Summoner with a Flame Rod will boost its power even further. Be sure to learn the three Blue spells here, they're all grand.

Note that one Page calling another upon defeat is a counter-attack it has to perform. When you prevent the counter-attack from happening, it'll be the last opponent even if it's scripted to call more. When you kill an enemy with a Counter attack, use !Catch to remove it from the battle or Release a Page 32 and have it cast Banish with success, no further enemies will be called.

Anyway, heal up at the pot and dive into the twisted maze that is the Library. Shit, you can never find what you're looking for in these places, am I right? This one's infested with demons too, so it's double the amount of nasty. As soon as you enter, you find your path blocked, but when you push on you'll see how the bookshelf makes way for you. Here's how to navigate through this room:

- Stand in the hole in the bookshelf you can reach - Pass through the other two holes you can now reach - Go up the ladder and go as far to the top-right as you can. The bookshelf should move - Continue as far to the right as possible. More moving should ensue. - Down the ladder. See the missing stone in the top-right corner? Use the action button to make way into the next room.

Aye-aye-aye, a limited field view! Also, random encounters. Find the Ether in the chest to the right before you exit this room.

In this next room, you need to go down a ladder. There's a chest you can't reach, a door and a ladder. The ladder doesn't seem to go anywhere, so let's try the door. No luck; a rebellious bookshelf refuses to let us pass. The ladder instead! Going up and pressing the action button sends us walking over bookshelves towards a book. Heal up, open the book and meet Ifrit, the demon of fire.

**Level:** 22, HP: 3000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Phoenix Down (common) · **Win:** Flame Scroll (always) · **Absorbs:** Fire · **Nullifies:** Poison · **Weakness:** Water, Ice · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !High Kick · **Special Technique Effect:** adds Paralyze · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Paralyze, Confuse, · **Attacks:** Battle, !High Kick, Fira, Blaze

Ifrit Berserk, Silence, Stop, Slow

Ifrit used to burn books with demons in them; he is much feared by all those sealed within the ancient tomes of this Library. But lately, he has become dormant, and now the Warriors of Light must wade through the evil Pages. Ifrit itself now offers you the use of its powers, but only to those that can avoid being burned to a crisp...

Ifrit knows four different attacks, all of which will look familiar. Fira is a powerful spell that at normal levels really cripples a single character and at lower levels will kill one. Blaze is deals (max HP / 4) like it always does; Ifrit's Special !High Kick will set Paralyze along with dealing damage, so watch out.

The fiery fiend is weak to Ice-elemental attacks. Also Water-elemental ones, but you can't take advantage of that right now. He also has a whole slew of status vulnerabilities, but since he is Heavy some of them will only work for a very short period of time, including Silence, Paralyze and Stop. Flash sets Darkness for the duration of the battle though, so that really helps stop those !High Kicks of his.

Mystic Knights can choose either Blizzara or Silence Spellblade effects; Blizzara deals incredible damage obviously (especially paired with Twohanded), but Silence Spellblade effects stop Fira spells. Both strategies will prove to be incredibly effective. Frost Rod-boosted Blizzara spells or Shiva conjuration deals large amounts of damage. If you are having trouble, use !Catch to get a Page 128 on your side, it'll deal over 1000 damage in a single attack.

Confuse isn't worth it, really. It'll make him cast Firaga on himself, which heals him by quite a lot. Make sure to avoid !Gaia, as the resulting Ignus Fatuus will heal Ifrit. The confusing part will work, but as previously said, he'll start healing like a madman so in all, just no.

After the fight, you'll gain 5 ABP, a Flame Scroll and the power to summon Ifrit. Ifrit is a slightly more powerful and Fire-elemental version of Shiva, basically. If you have any Summoners around, swap the Frost Rod for a Flame Rod and start using Ifrit's Hellfire instead. Even though Ifrit is thematically connected to defeating the encounters in this Library, Fira is actually both more powerful and slightly cheaper on your MP...

With Ifrit as an ally, the bookshelf that impeded your progress earlier suddenly remembers he needs to call his mother instead and lets you through. Don't miss the hole you can pass through to obtain a Ninja Suit; it's awesome for your Clothes class character(s), and is an upgrade from the Mythril Armor as well.

Continuing will give you another dark room. The right exit will take you nowhere, the left exit will take you almost directly past a chest containing a Phoenix Down before taking you to the large hall. It seems we're almost to the bottom, and still no sign of Mid.

In this next room, the final room, the path is pretty clear; push against the bookshelf to make it move, go stand on the tiny ladder and press the action button to make it move back. Instead of going out of the door, stand on the other tiny ladder and examine the bookshelf; a book will pop out for:

Page 32, Page 64 (common) Page 32, Page 64, Page 128, Page 256, Page 128, Page 64, Page 32 (rare)

The hole your fighting created takes you to a Save Point. Heal and Save up and continue. You'll find yourself seeing Mid, who seems unresponsive. Also, a horned demon comes to kill you!
