<a id="s4-15-1"></a>

### 4.15.1. The Seven Seas

Opponents: Sahagin (#193), Thunder Anemone (#194), Sea Ibis (#195), Corbett (#196)

Miscellaneous items: Lightning Scroll (common Thunder Anemone drop), Trident (rare Corbett steal)

Blue Spells: Goblin Punch

When you chase after Mid and find Cid in the second floor of the Pub again, Mid enters with you and slaps some sense back into the old man. Also, they storm off to go fix you up some Fire-Powered Ship. Going up after them (there's a lot or following Cid & Mid from now one, better get used to it) will further the plot.

Galuf finally tells you the backbone of the story. The dark mage Exdeath was sealed 30 years ago in this world by the power of the Crystals. Galuf was one of the four people who did this. So the meteor that appeared at the start of this game carried Galuf, the meteor near Walse tower sent the golden warrior and finally the meteor near Karnak came with the Werewolf, all bent on stopping the release of the seal on Exdeath.

Galuf passes out from the hard work of remembering. Alas, we've got ourselves a Fire-Powered Ship to boss around. Let's take a look at the Map (R button)!

See the white dot to the South-West? That's Jachol, our first stop. We'll also be visiting the South-Eastern crescent-shaped island. It's was named Crescent Island by the Unoriginal People in the Sky.

On the seas, you will find yourself being attacked every now and again. Lightning-elemental attacks are nice to have so Black casters will have a good time. Note that while !Gaia was awesome all the time, it's not so hot on the Fire-Powered Ship. Tsunami is just moderate non-elemental damage to all targets, and Whirlpool reduces the non-Heavy targets to a single digit of HP.

Sahagin are fishmen, weak to Lightning. You can Control them to see Goblin Punch, but you should already have it.

Sea Ibis only has 25 HP. They have crazy Evasion and Magic Evasion though, so you'll want unblockable attacks to nail them. Shiva/Ifrit, Goblin Punch, just some options for you. Another thing to know, by the way, is that floating/flying enemies often are incapable of avoiding Aerial attacks. Aerial

attacks are Bows and Whips. Beastmasters will Whip them up good, is what I'm saying. EVERY time.

Thunder Anemones suck because they absorb Lightning-elemental attacks. You can't MT Thundara when they're around. They have no elemental weakness either. They compensate for being stupid by dropping Lightning Scrolls all the time.

To the North-West, you may find Corbettes. They're mean mothers. They have 2800 HP, are weak to Lightning-elemental attacks and dish out mean physical attacks and Breath Wing. Flash is a great spell to utilize against them, and using !Control takes them right out of the battle. Gravity spells deal a lot of damage, and Death Claw simply destroys them if it connects. They'll be able to use Tailscrew when Controlled (also when used through !Release), so you can use their own attacks against them.

While the allocation of these encounters across the Overworld Map is a complex science the people of NASA only recently figured out, it's also extremely unimportant to you. But, just for being thorough:

Image the Overworld Map divided into 64 squares in an 8 by 8 fashion. Each square has a monster formation pack that you can encounter on the seas, even when there is no water there for you to sail on. The monster formations are distributed as follows:

Monster Formatio Pack 0 58 % Sahagin x3 42 % Thunder Anemone x2, Sahagin

Monster Formatio Pack 1 35 % Sea Ibis, Sahagin x2 35 % Sea Ibis x3 23 % Sahagin x3 6 % Thunder Anemone x2, Sahagin

Monster Formatio Pack 2 35 % Sea Ibis, Thunder Anemone x2 35 % Thunder Anemone x2, Sahagin 23 % Sahagin, Thunder Anemone, Corbett 6 % Corbett x2

Monster Formatio Pack 3 35 % Sahagin x3 35 % Sea Ibis, Thunder Anemone x2 23 % Corbett x2 6 % Sahagin, Thunder Anemone, Corbett

2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 3 0 0 3 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 3 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 3 3 3 0 0 0 0 3 3 3 3 0 0 1 1 1 1 3 3 0 0 1 1 1 1 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 1

So, to be perfectly clear, in the top-left corner of the Overworld Map, you will run into the monster formations found in Monster Formation Pack 2. You will notice that Packs 2 and 3 (the more difficult Packs) tend to appear on the edges of the Overworld, Pack 0 (the easiest Pack) is mostly encountered in those bodies of water enclosed by land and Pack 1 (the Sea Ibis-heavy Pack) is found around Crescent Island.

You won't naturally come across Corbett enemies when you just sail from destination to destination. If you want to encounter them, just Quicksave and sail along the Western edge of the Overworld map. Corbett can prove especially formidable opponents at this stage of the game, as their physical attacks are quite devastating and they have 2800 HP.
