<a id="s4-16-3"></a>

### 4.16.3. Jachol Cave

Opponents: Nutkin (#6), Skull Eater (#57)

Container contents: Blitz Whip, Shuriken, Tent

Welcome to the Cave of Jachol. Here's what's going down. There are a few treasures here, and random encounters of the bizarre kind. They're either Nut Eaters (those Regen-squirrels you met around the Wind Shrine at the very start of the game) and Skull Eaters. Concerning the latter, you either destroy them with the very limited range of attacks capable of destroying them, or you'll probably die hoping for them to use Flee rather than 1600-damage dealing physicals.

65 % Nutkin x 3 35 % Skull Eater x 6

The Nutkins pose no threat whatsoever. !Kick is very efficient at dealing with them in a single attack as it costs no MP. Whatever-you-have also works.

**Level:** 32, HP: 1, MP: 100 · **Defense:** 90, Magic Defense: 90 · **Evasion:** 90%, Magic Evasion: 90% · **Steal:** Tent (common) · **Win:** Elixir (rare) · **Creature:** Magic Beast · **Special Technique:** !Front Teeth · **Special Technique Effect:** Unblockable, adds poison & confuse · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Toad, Mini, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, · **Attacks:** Attack, !Incisor, Flee, (summon 6 Skull Eaters)

Skull Eater Paralyze, Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop

The Skull Eaters are an entirely different story. They have exactly 1 HP, but their defenses are both 90, meaning they're almost impenetrable. They will 'counter' any Magic spell they survive by summoning five other Skull Eaters around them, effectively spelling your doom. Physically, they're incredibly powerful; their Special !Incisor is both barrier-piercing and unblockable and will deal around 1600 damage to a Front Row character. It's supposed to set Poison and Confuse, just sets Poison in reality, but in all practical aspects just kills a character in a single hit. Undeniably the best way to deal with them is setting !Black 1 or !Blue or something that boosts Magic Power to a Ninja and have that Ninja Throw a Scroll. It kills the Skull Eater, no questions asked. If you consider this option too pricey or should you find yourself with sharply limited amounts of Scrolls (which would be the case if you followed this walkthrough faithfully), your other opion is !Gaia.

It'll either summon a Stalactite attack which kills the Skull Eater (it's a very powerful attack) or use Ignus Fatuus, which will confuse it half of the time. With a Flame Rod equipped, it may even kill it. If it uses !Incisor on itself, it's dead. If not, it's Battle, re-directing Skull Eater's attention to you without dealing any damage. Try again! Note that you won't get a listing from a Skull Eater in your Bestiary until you actually kill one.

If you, for some reason, don't want to use !Gaia or !Throw, you can simply outlast the Skull Eater with Phoenix Downs and Raise spells, since they'll only kill one character maximum every turn. Every turn they have a 1/3 chance of using Flee, so it's a waiting game this way. A costly one, since Raise is MP-heavy and Phoenix Downs slam a hole in your wallet, but two White or Red casters should suffice to keep your team alive throughout the cave.

One last thing about Skull Eaters; since a !Black or !Blue-boosted Ninja scroll kills Skull Eaters, you can 'summon' five more Skull Eaters and kill them all with a Ninja scroll, thus gaining more Gil and Experience from them. A Thief outspeeds a Ninja and can hit with any straight damage attack from the !Blue skillset, summoning five grey critters while the Ninja finishes them off in a single swoop.

Also note that the Cave of Jachol is somewhat of an ABP goldmine, since the Skull Eaters give 5 ABP and you'll see them often. This could be a good time to learn, say, the Beastmaster's !Control. I suggest you make at least a single character a Ninja; no punishment by any means, the Ninja gives a boost to your Preemptive attack rate, which increases your odds of besting a Skull Eater prior to it killing a character.

The skull switch next to the entrance does nothing now and is only meant to open the entrance if you want to back-track. Pressing the other skull switch pushes back a large rock wall, freeing the path to a line-up of skull switches. Once you reach it, you could go pressing skull switches like some kind of moron, but that's not the way to go. Simply wait, and eventually the 'true' skull switch will be the only one not to disappear. Quickly press it before the other ones come back (making the skull switch ineffective) and another path opens. The door here is won't open, but there's a button in the opened chest next to it to open it.

Crap, another opened chest even in this new room. However, all other chests contain items! There's a Shuriken and a Tent in the two chests you can easily reach to the left. Walk around to the third (and final) chest, and you may be able to open it for a Blitz Whip, but only if you haven't released Lone Wolf back in Walse Castle. If you have, the treasure will be gone.

The Blitz Whip has a 33 % chance of casting Thunder (it's a non-elemental weapon by itself) so it won't paralyze creatures like the normal Whip does. Still Back Row OK like all whips, and it's Battle Power equals that of the Ashura (though damage output will be lower due to the Ashura's critical hits). A Beastmaster with Barehanded and the Blitz Whip deals comparable damage to a Monk of equal level punching in the Front Row.

This is all. You can climb out of the north wall to enter the Overworld Map (possibly to use a Tent or to Save). Simply track back by logical means. You have no business in Jachol either anymore, so let's get back on the Fire-Powered Ship!

Now, sails to the south-west until you've gone around the continent and then set sail for the south. You'll pass the map's edge and appear north; there's a continent to your south-east (the far north-west corner of the map). And on this continent, there is a town! It's Istory, town of waterfalls, another summon beast, sheep and a new Black spell.
