<a id="s4-16-1"></a>

### 4.16.1. The shores of Jachol

Opponents: Bomb (#49), Doublizard (#50), Bio Soldier (#51)

Miscellaneous items: Battle Axe (common Bio Soldier steal), War Hammer (rare Bio Soldier steal)

Blue Spells: Self-Destruct

Darkgreen grasslands leading to Jachol: 35 % Bomb, Bomb, Doublizard 35 % Bio Soldier, Bio Soldier 23 % Bomb, Bomb 6 % Bomb, Bomb, Bomb, Bomb

All light-green grasslands: 35 % Bio Soldier, Bio Soldier 35 % Bomb, Bomb, Bomb, Bomb 30 % Bomb, Bomb

Forest and dark-green grasslands on the peninsula: 35 % Bomb, Bomb 35 % Bomb, Bomb, Doublizard 23 % Doublizard, Doublizard, Doublizard 6 % Bomb, Bomb, Bomb, Bomb

Don't be deceived by your gut instinct or even prior Final Fantasy knowledge; Bomb is not a Fire-elemental monster which is weak to Ice or something silly like that. All it does is attack physically and use Self-Destruct on rare occasions. You can learn it here if you somehow missed it/couldn't retrieve it from the Motor Trap enemies in the Fire-Powered Ship.

Doublizards are weak to Ice-elemental attacks, as you'll find most lizard-like and dragon-like enemies to be. They're kinda sturdy but generally unassuming. When they turn around, exactly nothing happens; all that happens is that they will use a Battle attack when they're facing you with their 'normal' face, and when the turn around to attack with their lower face (the one they don't start with, I mean... all this trouble to refrain from using the word "Ass-face" isn't worth it) they'll use !Slip, which adds the Sap status.

Bio Soldier is the strongest enemy here and has the potential to be very very dangerous. When they're with another Bio Soldier all is well, as they'll just use Battle. However, when a lone Bio Soldier is damaged, it'll counter with a Bio spell on the entire party, dealing over 200 damage to all characters. If a Ninja or Monk hits twice and doesn't manage to kill the guy, this even means TWO Bio spells. Avoid it at all costs. Another notable feature about the Bio Soldier is its common Battle Axe and rare War Hammer. The former is the weakest Axe/Hammer there is and could be previously bought in Walse, but the latter is stronger than the Ogre Axe you could purchase in Jachol and might be worth going for if you like Berserkers.

...

Doublizards go both ways.
