<a id="s4-16-2"></a>

### 4.16.2. The town of Jachol

Features: Piano

Jachol's a town of adventurers, of which the armor and weapons are known throughout the world. It's a village inhabited by descendants of the ancient Ronka civilization, and many rare treasures are said to be found in the surroundings. It's a good place for us.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Green Beret         2500 Gil
  - Ninja Suit          3000 Gil
  - Sage's Surplice     1000 Gil
  - It's fairly straightforward here. Buy Green Berets for every character that
  - could benefit from one (remember: Blue and Red Mages also can equip it, so if
  - you are planning on using either one on a Magic character, you could want to
  - buy GB's for them). Ninja Suits for every Heavy Armor and Clothes class
  - character, and Sage's Surplice for the Magic characters. They're not as good as
  - Gaia Gear on the defenses, so you shouldn't buy them for characters that
  - already have Gaia Gear. Sage's Surplice grants immunity to the Silence status,
  - which is a nice feature for spellcasters on paper. Enemies will almost never try
  - to Silence you, though, and it won't stop Mute.

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Ogre Killer         3200 Gil
  - Coral Sword         2800 Gil
  - Mage Masher          900 Gil
  - Trident             2700 Gil
  - Ashura              5800 Gil
  - Silver Bow          1500 Gil
  - Quite a few new and powerful weapons, but most of them are fairly redundant.
  - The Ogre Killer is stronger than any Mythril Hammer you might wield, but both
  - the War Hammer (rare steal from the Bio Soldier which roams near Jachol) and
  - the Death Sickle are stronger so you might not even want to spend your money
  - here if you do utilize Berserkers. Note how it says it's effective against
  - giant's... There are no giant-type enemies in this game! The Coral Sword is
  - simply a stronger sword for everybody who uses swords. It's Lightning-elemental
  - too. The Mage Masher is a weapon you should have in abundance by now, but buy
  - them for appropriate characters if you don't. The Trident is a Lightning-
  - elemental Spear, but without any Job to equip it there's no point.
  - The Ashura is still the best weapon you could hope to wield at this point, but
  - again, it's not worth switching to Freelancer for. The Silver Bow, finally, is
  - a fairly crappy two-handed Back Row weapon that no Job can equip.

- **Magic Shop:**
  - Cura                 620 Gil
  - Raise                700 Gil
  - Confuse              650 Gil
  - Silence              280 Gil
  - Protect              280 Gil
  - Cure                 180 Gil
  - Libra                 80 Gil
  - Poisona               90 Gil
  - Missed any White spells in Karnak? You can buy them here.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Tent                 250 Gil
  - Well, you know. Same old.

The Pub houses several NPC's all talking about the Cave of Jachol to the north. That's very interesting. There's a piano on the stage, which you should totally play! This is the first time your performance is more than just some scales; it's the first exercise from Le Piano Virtuose by Charles-Louis Hanon, but it's basically still a fancy scale practice. But it has a name and it's in French, and everybody knows French piano is better than regular piano.

Also, you can dance with the lady, but the subsequent scene is so mind-numbingly stupid it just might wake you up from this dreamworld and make you realize you're playing a game again. So don't.

There's very little to do in this town besides gathering up stuff for the Cave, so let's go to the Cave. I hear there's treasure. It's handy to have some Phoenix Downs handy; the monsters in the Cave of Jachol might decide to randomly kill characters and you want to be prepared. Since this part is optional, you can also skip it and wait for a moment where you can access this dungeon through a short-cut, or until much much later when the treasure is mostly useless but the danger is also gone.
