<a id="s4-17-3"></a>

### 4.17.3. The forests of Istory and the battle with Ramuh

Opponents: Mythril Dragon (#36), Black Flame (#53), Stone Golem (#54), Mini Dragon (#55), Ramuh (#255)

Miscellaneous items: Dragon Fang (rare Mini Dragon steal)

Summon spells: Ramuh

Blue Spells: Dark Spark, Flash

Pre-Ramuh smackdown odds: 70 % Ramuh 23 % Mini Dragon x 5 6 % Stone Golem, Black Flame x 2

Post-Ramuh smackdown odds: 70 % Mythril Dragon 23 % Mini Dragon x 5 6 % Stone Golem, Black Flame x 2

The Mini Dragon formation is actually incredibly powerful, so even with the preparations I'm going to give you it'd be wise to save up in advance.

**Level:** 22, HP: 1000, MP: 100 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 30%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Dragon Fang (rare) · **Creature:** Dragon · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Toad, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, Frostbite

Mini Dragon

Mini Dragons can be encountered when chasing after Ramuh. They're the best source for Gil and Experience Points in World 1, so it's no surprise they're tough.

Mini Dragons will often simply use Battle, but have a 33 % chance of using Frostbite every turn. It's a weak MT Ice-elemental attack without any special properties, but coming from Mini Dragon's colossal 50 Magical Power and a multiplier of 8 it'll leave a mark ranging from 120 (Heavy Armor characters) to 40 (Gaia Gear Magical characters). This seems bearable, but remember: there are five potential casters every turn.

Mini Dragons have some pretty nasty defenses to overcome; while not quite as high as Stone Golem's defenses, these guys come in groups of five and have 1000 HP, so it balances out. They aren't vulnerable to any kind of prominent status ailment except for Toad and have no elemental weakness. A normally leveled Toad caster will generally hit 2 or 3 out of the five Mini Dragons so keeping them under your thumb with the Toad status isn't very easy (time-consuming mostly, as you'll want to MT Toad on the group, than pick apart every non-transformed dragon with Pond's Chorus or the spell). Catching one could be a good idea as these babies cast Holy upon Release, which is damn powerful.

Again, multi-target magical attacks are the key. Aqua Breath, Thunder Rod Ramuh (or Flame Rod Ifrit if you haven't obtained the lightning-elemental geezer yet) and Ninja scrolls will decimate the little guys in three hits. Make sure you get to use these skills, else you're pretty much dead already. They have a rare Dragon Fang for Steal, but the odds are so low you'll actually score one I'm going to assume you'll never ever get one.

Anyway, we're not here to play around. There's a random encounter in these forests by the name of Ramuh. Fight him once and have him perform his final speech to get him out of the way once and for all. There are ways around his final speech (setting either Berserk or Stop on him will prevent him from using the speech) which will make him appear after you've defeated him, but we're going to assume you have no business doing something like that.

**Level:** 21, HP: 4000, MP: 300 · **Defense:** 20, Magic Defense: 5 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** High Potion (always) · **Win:** Ramuh (always) · **Absorbs:** Lightning · **Creature:** Humanoid · **Special Technique:** !Rod · **Special Technique Effect:** Adds sap & aging · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Mini, Darkness, Berserk, Stop, Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, Thundara, Mini, Osmose, Flash, Electrocute, Lightning

Ramuh

Ramuh is the Lightning-elemental counterpart to Shiva and Ifrit, and the most powerful of the three. He attacks with a barrage of Lightning-elemental spells, and even his Battle command looks like it was performed by a Thunder Rod. Electrocute is still very weak, but his Thundara spells hit hard; cast upon a single target, it'll likely cripple if not kill the unfortunate target. I don't think we've gone over Lightning before; it's basically Blaze/Breath Wing in a Lightning-elemental jacket, meaning it deals (maximum HP / 4) damage to every character. Flash is annoying as hell and can be learned by Blue Mages if they haven't already from Crew Dust or a Blockhead. Silver Specs can protect your physical sluggers; while the mages may avoid its effect due to their Magic Evasion, those with Heavy Armor will almost surely get hit without Silver Specs.

Note that the rare physical attack Ramuh uses is a very special one. It provokes no Counter-attacks, nor does it dispel the Confuse, Sleep or Singing status you should not have at the moment.

Ramuh has a few status vulnerabilities. Flash will work on him, Berserk attempts by either the Kiss of Blessing (Maiden's Kiss + Revivify) or the Bacchus' Wine (Revivify + Turtle Shell), and Stop by means of the Bard's Romeo's Ballad. I'm talking about !Mix and !Sing here, neither of which you have at the moment :/ If you have the Mini spell (if you've followed this walkthrough you don't have it yet) then Ramuh can be shrunk, but he will retaliate by casting the Mini spell on your entire party as well. Picking on somebody your own size is an important combat ethos, after all.

However, the most glaring weakness Ramuh has lies in its lack of Heavy nature and his vulnerability to the Death status. Since he's not Heavy, the Stop status lasts a long time; and !Flirt, Gravity, Missile and Death Claw will work; because of the latter, the Death Sickle's 33 % Death spell will kill it. Releasing a Mani Wizard (Death) or a Corbette (Tail Screw) also works.

If you've been following the walkthrough, Death Claw is clearly your best bet, but a combination of Slow, Stop and Gravity coming from your Time casters is also a very effective strategy. On pure damage output, !Releasing any Mini Dragon will result into an incredibly powerful Holy spell (around 2000 damage in a single hit), Berserkers perform very well at this stage of the game and !Black and !Summon spells, boosted with appropriate Rods, also get the job done very nicely. If you haven't been drinking too much in the last couple of years, you should remember me talking about the combination of Dark Spark and Level 5 Death; Dark Spark will reduce Ramuh's effective level from 21 to 10, turning him into a valid target for Level 5 Death. It's a two-hit instant defeat combo available to characters of all levels!

Ramuh: ...Ifrit? What are you doing here?

**Ifrit:** Lord Ramuh! I see you have become even more powerful. If you would lend

that strength to us...

Ramuh: Ifrit! No need to say more. You and I have never been enemies!

After the fight you'll get a 'Ramuh' item. Maybe some summon beasts having an item has a storyline purpose, but I bet it's just because the programmers couldn't figure out how to unlock a summon beast right after a random encounter battle on the Overworld Map. Anyway, use the item in the menu to watch it disappear and unlock Ramuh for your Summoner.

We're done here. Let's sail to the South-East, where Crescent Island is located. It's the crescent-shaped island. The innovation!
