<a id="s4-17-2"></a>

### 4.17.2. The town of Istory

Black Spells: Toad

Songs: Romeo's Ballad

Welcome to the one-Starbucks town called Istory. There are a few sights to behold, so let's scout around.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Flame Ring         50000 Gil
  - Coral Ring         50000 Gil
  - Angel Ring         50000 Gil
  - If you're having horrible flashbacks to endless Gil-hoarding games such as the
  - original Final Fantasy, don't worry. You are not expected to buy any of these
  - at this time; if you've been leveling you may have enough Gil to buy one, but
  - you shouldn't as it will seriously cut your financial supplies you'll need in
  - the future. Fluctuation-buffers are the basis of any responsible financial
  - plan, I dare say! Just for kicks (or if you do decide to buy one of these right
  - now or in the near future, which wouldn't be unthinkable per se):

The Flame and Coral Rings concern themselves with elemental properties. The Flame Ring allows you to absorb Fire-elemental attacks and nullify the effects of Ice-elemental attacks. Water-elemental attacks will deal double damage, however. Also, it grants 5 Defense, 5 Magic Defense and 5% extra Magic Block.

The Coral Ring is the opposite of the Flame Ring, kinda. It absorbs Water- elemental attacks, nullifies Fire-elemental attacks and takes double damage from Lightning-elemental attacks. Also, 5 Defense, 5 Magic Defense and 5% extra Magic Block.

The Angel Ring has no elemental properties. Instead, it gives 10 (!) Magic Defense, 5 Defense, 10 % extra Magic Block and protects against the Old and Zombie status ailments. If you were to buy anything, I'd suggest this one; while the status immunities probably aren't as useful as the elemental properties (now), the sheer defensive properties of the Angel Ring as incredibly useful in this stage of the game.

A hint: with a Flame Ring equipped any character with access to a Flame Bow or a self-targetable Fire-elemental spell can now heal itself/any target with a Flame Ring equipped. This is useful information in single Job challenges. Black Mages will want them for a far easier time, and Archers can do it as well. Flame Rings are a staple of a lot of challenges, as a lot of Single Class Challenges are such can only be completed by getting four Flame Rings here.

- **Magic Shop:**
  - Gravity              620 Gil
  - Stop                 580 Gil
  - Haste                320 Gil
  - Mute                 320 Gil
  - Slow                  80 Gil
  - Regen                100 Gil
  - Yeah, whatever. You should be able to cast any of the above anyway. If you
  - haven't, here's where you can buy them again.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Tent                 250 Gil
  - Normal items, but do note the hidden passage here leading to the back room!
- **There's nothing there, some item shop owners just like their privacy. These**
  - guys live here, there are no normal houses in FFVA towns. You try bringing home

A little girl tips you off on a small surprise regarding the flowerbed. If you touch all the flower squares, the middle one will open up, a frog will come leaping out and give you the Black Toad spell. Sweet! Too bad it's not a Spellblade spell, really...to be more accurate, the exact requirements for obtaining the Toad spell are this:

Touch all x squares and then touch the @ square:

x0x 0 0 x0@

Nah, not really useful to know, but for trivia :P

The big happening of the town is the sheep pen. Seems even duller than where I was born. The sheep in the bottom-right corner isn't a sheep at all, rather a girl in a Beastmaster costume. The sheep in the top-left corner is angry with the world and what it gives him, and rather than resorting to such gems as 'One step closer' by Linkin Park, he decides to kick you over the fence... but only if you talk to it from behind. Here, you'll meet a bard who teaches you Romeo's Ballad if you answer his question with 'Yes'. You're not lying, after all.

Romeo here obviously referring to Shakespeare's play. Romeo was in love with some wench called Rosaline, but promptly forgot her upon meeting thirteen-year old Julia at some fancy dress party. He sneaks out and calls to his Julia on the balcony. Long story short, everybody dies and it's all Cupid's fault. Best to stay indoors and play video games instead!

O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright! It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear; Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear! So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows, As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows. The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand, And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand. Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight! For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.

You can't perform Songs yet, I know. You'll be able to sing in the future, though. You can do anything you set your mind to. No, I mean it. Really.

Now, go. There was an old man in the forest who can conjure up lightning. If this mere fact doesn't infuriate you enough to seek him out and beat him up, you haven't been taking your steroids. For preparation, equip Silver Specs on every physical fighter and remove any Coral Sword of Trident you might have equipped as they will heal the super-random encounter we're going to hunt down.
