<a id="s4-17-1"></a>

### 4.17.1. Shores of Istory

Opponents: Black Flame (#53), Stone Golem (#54)

Blue Spells: Dark Spark

**Always:** Black Flame, Black Flame, Black Flame, Black Flame, Black Flame

Light-green grasslands:

Dark-green grasslands: 58 % Stone Golem, Black Flame, Black Flame 42 % Black Flame, Black Flame, Black Flame, Black Flame, Black Flame

Black Flames have a 50 % Evasion rating and a fairly high Magic Defense. Pair that with their absorption of Wind, Earth, Holy and Poison (meaning !Gaia is useless against them) and you've got some resistant cretins. They also wield Dark Spark, a Blue spell that halves the targets level when successful. Next to normal level-based Hit Rate checks, it can't be blocked by any means so it works on any target once you get around to a possible horrible Hit Rate. The way to go, if possible, is multi-target magical attacks that don't suffer in power when multi-targeted. Black Flames can't avoid the effects of !Sing, so Romeo's Ballad is quite effective in Stopping them if you already have a Bard around. Flame Rod Hellfire performed by Ifrit is a good one, Aqua Breath is expensive but successful, and especially the Ninja's scrolls work like a charm (while Black Flame is weak to Water- elemental attacks, you'll probably only have Thunder Scrolls in mass). Learn Dark Spark!

Now children, it is time to learn about Dark Spark.

Dark Spark halves the target's level and rounds down when the result isn't a whole number. Dark Spark has a poor hit rate, but nothing is immune to it! Dark Spark cuts down offense of the affected target obviously, but the target's level is also affected when levels are checked for various attacks, such as Goblin Punch, Level 5 Death, the works. Since Level 5 Death ignores Death immunity as well as the Heavy nature, smart application of Dark Spark spell can net you a two-turn instant defeat. In addition, if you didn't learn Level 5 Death earlier because your level wasn't right at the time, know that you can also affect your own level with Dark Spark, learning is now an option if you can take your level to something that can be divided by 5.

Stone Golems are the opposite. They won't evade anything, but their Magic Defense is through the roof (50) and their Defense is fairly solid as well. The real kicker is their inherent Protect status that halves all physical damage done to them, even those that would normally ignore Defense. They're weak versus Lightning-elemental attacks, meaning Thunder Rod Thundara spells, Lightning Scrolls, Two-Handed Coral Swords and things like that work really well. Like all stone monsters, Stone Golem will die automatically when a Gold Needle item is used on it, which is also an option. They make quite potent lackeys as well; when Released, they perform Earthquake, an MT Earth-elemental attack that deals around 600 damage.

You can, of course, prance into the forest, but I'll talk about all that after visiting Istory.
