<a id="s4-18-1"></a>

### 4.18.1. The town of Crescent

Features: Piano

Songs: Mighty March

The people and Jachol talked about how there was something underneath of Crescent Island. When talking to the people here, it seems the soil is especially fertile but strange noises well up sometimes, and there are earthquakes. An inconveniently timed earthquake swallows up the Fire-Powered Ship as well, stranding you on the Island. Let's look around. Some girl tells you about the fact that rock-like creatures don't like Gold Hairpins; a reference to Gold Needles, not the headgear!

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Plumed Hat           300 Gil
  - Sage's Surplice     1000 Gil
  - You shouldn't need to buy either, but if you find yourself lacking a frontal
  - lobe, this is your chance to redeem yourself.

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Flame Bow           2500 Gil
  - Frost Bow           2500 Gil
  - Thunder Bow         2500 Gil
  - Silver Harp          800 Gil
  - Four weapons for Jobs you haven't obtained yet. You will soon, though. You'll
  - win an Frost Bow in a boss battle not very long from now, and there's a chance
  - you won a Fire Bow from Liquid Flame earlier. The Thunder Bow is the only one
  - of interest anyway, so if you want to utilize a possible archer-like Job, buy
  - that one. The Silver Harp is a horrible weapon. Rather than dealing physical
  - damage or even dealing physical damage depending on your Magic Power (like
  - Bells do), Harps simply cast a spell specially designed to be used by said
  - Harps. The notes coming out of the Silver Harp deal exactly 1/16 of the
  - target's current HP. Useless. Also requires two hands to be used.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Tent                 250 Gil
  - I wonder how they make Maiden's Kisses. I wonder how you carry them in your
  - pocket. I also wonder if in the Maiden's Kisses industry of Final Fantasy V,
  - pretty young girls are fired for consuming a forbidden love, thus turning their
  - products tainted. In general, making out with a toad doesn't turn the toad into
  - something other than a toad, unless its one of those psychoactive toads, in
  - which case anything could appear to happen, from toads turning into princesses
  - to ATM machines demanding you feed it a stray cat.

In a house to the south-east, there's a bard living by himself. He'll teach you the Mighty March, which sets Regen on all characters. Not all that good, but can't hurt. He then urges you to play some tunes on his piano, but even though you can (and should) play the piano here, it's apparently not good enough for him to compose any new songs. The tune you play is the first March from his three military marches, in D Major; it was originally composed by mister Franz Peter Schubert for 4 hands (quatre-mains) and could thus only be played by two players simultaneously.

Some dude mentions a Black Chocobo in the forest. Legend has that these creatures are able to fly, which is a precious ability since we've lost our freaking Fire-Powered Ship and we need to get out of this place.
