<a id="s4-18-2"></a>

### 4.18.2. Crescent Island and the Black Chocobo

Opponents: Doublizard (#50), Bio Soldier (#51), Harvester (#52), Black Flame (#53)

Miscellaneous items: Death Sickle (rare Harvester drop), War Hammer (rare Bio Soldier steal)

Blue Spells: Dark Spark

35 % Bio Soldier, Doublizard, Harvester 35 % Harvester, Harvester, Doublizard 30 % Harvester, Harvester, Black Flame, Black Flame

The only new enemy here is Harvester. His business in attacking you is unclear, but he carries some neat weapons around. He has a common Silver Bow to Steal (useless to equip now that you have access to elemental bows which are slightly stronger, but great for selling) and will rarely drop a Death Sickle. The Death Sickle is a great weapon. It's extremely powerful and has a 33 % chance of casting Death which is an incredibly awesome side-effect that will even affect some bosses. If you ever want to use one of those spiffy Berserker employees, now's the time. Twohanded is Death Sickle's best friend, obviously.

The tiny forest to the south of Crescent? Enter the middle square and you'll enter the forest. Here's the Black Chocobo. With Bartz, you get to catch it. If you want to quit, you can always talk to your fellow teammates. The Black Chocobo basically runs until it hits an object (the side, a tree, Bartz), then randomly picks a direction it wasn't running to previously and starts running that-a-way. Catching it isn't that hard. If Bartz was dead at this point, you can enter the menu and see a party of one dead guy.

It won't fly properly, though. Faris smacks two Crystal Shards out of the bird; the two Crystal shards from the Fire Crystal we hadn't recovered yet! Finally, the Bard gives us a way to utilize the two Songs we have learned. It's also capable of equipping the crappy Silver Harp. The Ranger gives us a way to deal with the Bows.

There's the Ranger and the Bard that have been added to your options. Both have their void to fill in this game, so let's take a look:

The Ranger is another Job which is hard to classify, so I suggest you learn a bit about what they are and how they perform. They learn !Animals after 15 ABP, which is a great action ability for any mage to have. They're most notable for their capstone ability !Rapid Fire, which is made of awesome. [RANGER-LINK]

The Bard has low stats and very poor equipment options, but !Sing is really awesome. Multi-target unblockable Stop status? Sign me up. [BARD-LINK]

It takes only 175 ABP to learn !Sing, and it's an incredibly useful action ability that functions almost entirely independant of stats so any Job can use it effectively. The Ranger often struggles to match the damage output of other physical damage classes; Barehanded provides a damage boost that puts an arrow- happy Ranger on par with a Monk of equal level.

Now that you have the Black Chocobo, our direct mission objective is going to the Library of the Ancients and talk to Cid 'nd Mid and complain about our lack of modus transporti. However, first you should make sure that you've found a Death Sickle if you have any intention of being awesome. Also, there's some other things we can do before finding Cid 'nd Mid, and since the latter are boring anyway, I suggest we do them first.

Note: never park the Black Chocobo in the middle of this forest, as you'll have to catch it again :< Some like his dance upon capture, but there are also some who use scotch as deodorant so some clearly don't know what's right and wrong in the world.

This is an exceptional opportunity for you to revisit Castle Walse and brawl with Jackanapes. There are two strategies you can follow. If you learned Level 5 Death at the Library of the Ancients, casting it versus Jackanapes will end the battle in your favor by killing Jackanapes outright. If you lack Level 5 Death, you can utilize Berserkers for a more troublesome but ultimately effective run. Two-Handed is a big bonus, as is the Death Sickle or War Hammer. Go in with a Berserker frontloaded with violent tendencies and a Thief to deflect Back Attacks. Have a Time Mage cast Haste upon the Berserker(s). Wait and keep yourself alive. After a few misses here and there, Jackanapes should be paste on the floor. Now casually stroll around, opening chests like it's just another day's work.
