<a id="s4-19-1"></a>

### 4.19.1. The town of Lix

Opponents: Goblin (#1), Killer Bee (#5), Nutkin (#6), Stray Cat (#7)

Songs: Alluring Air

Surrounding forest: 35 % Nutkin x3 35 % Stray Cat x4 23 % Stray Cat, Killer Bee, Nutkin 6 % Killer Bee, Goblin

Let's go to the last town we haven't visited yet, the town of Lix. It's located to the north-west of the Wind Shrine, is surrounded by weak monsters, forest and mountains.

There are exactly three cutscenes centered around Bartz to be triggered here. One is triggered when you sleep at Lix' Inn (which will cost you nothing). It explains Bartz' history with his parents and explains why he is the adventurer he is now. The cutscene will remove the "Memento" rare item from your inventory, a rare item that serves no purpose. Another one is triggered when talking to the scholar running around town, who is a childhood friend of Bartz. His fear of heights (remember his reluctance regarding getting on the Wind Drake?) is showcased. The most important one is located in Bartz' old house where a bard now lives. A music box (the pink one) can be played, sinking Bartz into his memories. After the scene concerning the death of Stella, you can talk to the bard who'll teach you the Alluring Air, in my personal opinion the second-best Song there is; it sets Confuse to the entire enemy pary at no MP cost.

Some claim the "Stella!!!" bit is a reference to A Streetcar named Desire. Other sources claim the S-M-R-T smart line from Bartz' scholar friend was taken from a Simpsons episode. Other sources still claim that the illuminati did 9-11. Believe what you will!

The other notable features here are the shops. The Item Shop is important because due to Bartz being some kind of super-jock around these parts, the merchant will cut his prices down by 50 %. Stock up on items if you wish, it'll be especially useful when you want to play around with the !Mix ability in the future.

Upstairs, there's more goodies:

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Kunai                600 Gil
  - Shuriken            2500 Gil
  - Flame Scroll         200 Gil
  - Thunder Scroll       200 Gil
  - Water Scroll         200 Gil
  - Mainly just interesting due to the Scrolls that can now be bought in large
  - quantities. First time you get to lay your hands on Water Scrolls, too. In the
  - upcoming 'dungeon', most enemies will be weak to Water-elemental attacks, so
  - Water Scrolls are nice to have. Shuriken are great to have as well, but they're
  - very expensive. I'd say, buy 20 of each Scroll and two Shuriken, they'll serve
  - you well.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Green Beret         2500 Gil
  - Ninja Suit          3000 Gil
- **The Armor Shop is also ninja-based, but this attire could've been purchased in**
  - Jachol four score and five centuries ago.

- **Magic Shop:**
  - Esuna               3000 Gil
  - If you missed the status ailment restoration spell in the exploding castle of
  - Karnak, you can simply buy it here. It cures most status ailments, but not
  - spasms.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Ether                750 Gil
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Tent                 250 Gil
- **While most Item Shops across the world are identical, this one is different;**
  - not only is everything only half-priced, you cannot buy Phoenix Downs here but
  - you CAN get Ethers. Maybe that whole Stella tragedy could have been averted,
  - had this loser been decent enough to offer Phoenix Downs like every other
- **normal Item Shop. Oh well, stock up on outdoor housing; this is the winter of**
  - our discount Tents. That's Shakespeare humor for ya! This is a great place to
  - stock up on Antidotes, Eye Drops and Maiden's Kisses, all ingrediets for !Mix
  - later in the game.

That's all, folks! Time to go to the Library of the Ancients. There, you'll learn that building a new Fire-Powered Ship and searching the seas for the Earth Crystal will have to wait for a while; King Tycoon was found in the Desert of Shifting Sands, and if anything he should be more than able to tell us something. If he's not being mind-controlled or something, obviously.

The upcoming boss battle features a creature with the Desert nature. It'll cause Aqua Breath to deal 8 times as much damage. It you never learned the spell from Dhorme Chimera, now's the time!

Get to the Desert of the Shifting Sands! Cid 'n Mid will chime the bells of your demise. I mean, to summon the Sandworm.
