<a id="s4-2-1"></a>

### 4.2.1. The Wind Crystal Jobs

Upon discovery of the broken Wind Crystal, our heroes are left with precious little time to think it over, as a whole lot of freaky stuff happens right then and there. A sparkle from what we can assume is the Fire Crystal imbues Faris with the Spirit of Fire, Courage. Lenna obtains the Spirit of Water, Devotion. Galuf obtains the Spirit of Earth, Hope, while Bartz obtains the Spirit of the broken Wind Crystal, Passion.

Once again, before anyone can discuss what exactly happened, a cracked and tired voice calls towards Lenna. It's Alexander, and he's not looking too good. He tells you what the immobile crystals could not and sends you on a quest to protect the Crystals. The three remaining crystals are about to shatter according to King Tycoon, and they need to be prevented from doing so. Before the good King can continue however, a dark aura surrounds him and forcefully removes him from the room.

The Crystal shards all hold the soul of a long-gone warrior of a certain class, and by equipping the crystal shard (how exactly that may be done is left to anybody's imagination) the Chosen Warriors may tap into the powers of these warriors. The souls have no name except for the Job they represent.

For a quick tutorial on the Job system that is in any way superior to what the game gives you, please go here here: [JOB-LINK]

For now, you'll want to know all about the Jobs you've been offered. I suggest you take a look at section 6.0 for information about the Jobs and abilities. Use these quick links to learn more about specific Jobs:

[KNIGHT-LINK] [MONK-LINK] [THIEF-LINK]

[WHITEM-LINK] [BLACKM-LINK] [BLUEM-LINK]

Abilities to possibly shoot for in the near future:

Learning (Blue Mage) only takes a grand total of 10 + 20 ABP. The !Check you learn in the process is beyond worthless, but you'll want to be able to learn Blue Magic spells without having to resort to creating a Blue Mage when the offense clearly isn't there at that point of the game. Since !Blue is a great skillset for both magically and physically inclined characters, it's not a bad idea to slowly build towards that goal for all four.

!Black level 1 & !White level 1. With 10 ABP each it takes very little effort to learn the basics of one school of magic and put it on the other Job. More than one healer is a good thing, and you don't want an entirely offensively crippled character.

Barehanded. From now on, you have acceptable to good physical offense on any character you choose regardless of what weapons you're carrying. Monk punches are very powerful, and Barehanded can be used to increase Strength to da max even when you're keeping your weapon. A related matter that fun for the whole family: if you set Barehanded on a Blue Mage Bartz (known as the 'Triple B combo') in the SNES and GBA game, Bartz will reveal a second face when punching an enemy! If you named Bartz 'Zaphod' just because of this, you are now AWESOME.

Other notes:

A White Mage without offense is a far inferior character than a Black Mage without support spells. I suggest going for offense first, especially when starting out.

The Monk learns Barehanded after only 45 ABP, giving any character the ability to have the game's best Strength and great to decent 'weapons'. Giving a Thief the Barehanded ability makes for a character with the highest Strength and Agility stats in the game; a great combination available from the very start of your ABP career!
