<a id="s4-20-1"></a>

### 4.20.1. The battle with the Sandworm

Opponents: Sandworm (#256)

**Level:** 18, HP: 3000, MP: 10125 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Weakness:** Water · **Creature:** Desert Creature, Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, Gravity, Quicksand

Sandworm

Here's the deal. There are three Holes which Sandworm will regularly pop out. Every time you hit a hole with a non-Magic attack, it has a 66 % counter rate with a Gravity spell. The Sandworm in the meantime will use Battle and a move called Quicksand. Quicksand is an Earth-elemental attack that will deal 60 damage to everybody and set the Sap status. Note that the physical attack the Sandworm uses is like the physical attack used by Ramuh; it does not provoke Counters, nor does it dispel status ailments such as Confuse or Sleep. Sandworm is always considered to be in the Back Row, halving most physical damage except for Bows, Whips, the Moonring Blade and Goblin Punch.

MT magical attacks are the way to go. Aqua Breath deals 8 times as much damage to Sandworm since it's a Desert creature. A normally leveled Blue caster will take out Sandworm in a single attack. Releasing a Dhorme Chimera will deal about 2300 damage, thoroughly crippling him (nets you counter-Gravity spells though). Water Scrolls are very powerful, especially if the character using !Throw has a mage's Magic Power, but they will provoke two Gravity spells as well. Summoning Thunder Rod Ramuh deals good damage too, and doesn't evoke counterattacks.

It's not that hard a fight. Keep Berserkers away from this fight; they'll attack the holes most of the time. If your Death Sickle casts Death on a hole, you'll get a chance of countering for both he physical strike and the added spell, strangely enough.

When you're done, you've made a bridge. Excellent! *air guitar noises*
