<a id="s4-20-2"></a>

### 4.20.2. The Desert of Shifting Sands and Gohn, the Town of Ruin

Opponents: Bomb (#49), Doublizard (#50), Bio Soldier (#51), Dhorme Chimera (#58), Sandboil (#59), Desert Killer (#60), Sand Bear (#61)

Miscellaneous items: Javelin (rare Sand Bear steal)

Blue Spells: Aqua Breath, Self-Destruct

Desert of the Shifting Sands: 35 % Desert Killer, Desert Killer 35 % Desert Killer, Sandboil, Sandboil 23 % Sand Bear 6 % Sand Bear, Desert Killer, Sandboil

Grasslands between the Desert of Shifting Sands and Gohn 35 % Bio Soldier x2 35 % Bomb x4 30 % Bomb x2

Grasslands around Gohn 35 % Bomb x2, Doublizard 35 % Bio Soldier x2 23 % Bomb x2 6 % Bomb x4

**Always:** Dhorme Chimera

Patch of desert south of the Desert of Shifting Sands

Sandboil will rarely use Spore, an attack that Poisons a single target. It's a desert-type creature like everything here and weak to the Water element

Desert Killer is undead, weak to Water-elemental attacks and a Desert creature like logic would give us. They have the power to use Quicksand on their second turn, but you should've disposed of them before that. They may also Flee before you can kill them, but it's not bad.

Sand Bear is just a big lug whose Special !Right Claw can set Sap in addition to dealing some physical damage. It's most prominent feature though is its rare Javelin Steal. The Javelin is a Spear and the most powerful weapon you can have at this point (even stronger than the Death Sickle). If you're a fan of the Freelancer class, you may want to pick one up here. Sand Bear has no common steal, so you'll get one eventually; the creature is vulnerable to every status ailment with the exception of Mini, so Pond's Chorus will help you in this fight greatly. Sand Bears are supremely powerful when caught, yielding a most impressive (Strong) Attack. They'll always drop an Antidote upon defeat.

Ninja Water Scrolls are grand in this area; you could've bought them for 200 Gil a piece in Lix, and they instantly kill every random encounter here even without you having to boost the Ninja's Magic Power. !Gaia will have a fair chance of calling out Quicksand, which kills a target instantly. Sandstorm will set Darkness, so it's not like that's a total waste. It is very difficult to run from the encounters here except with !Flee or !Smoke.

Right, Down, Down until you can't go further (you'll be moved one tile to the left), then go left, down, there's the exit already in sight. You need to go around a single sandstream and you're there.

You can find a Pyramid in the middle of the Desert of Shifting Sands, 'guarded' by two omnious looking gargoyles. However, there's nothing you can do here, so exploring the area will just get you some random encounters.

At the end of the line, you'll come across Gohn, Town of Ruin. Here, King Tycoon will pop up every now and then, ever fleeing from your sight. You need to 'find' him a couple of times before you can corner him.

First, you'll see him running away if you are trying to go up the stairs in front of you as soon as you enter Gohn. Now, there are three instances where you can see him. One is enough to proceed, but you can go find all three if you're so inclined:

- South-east corner ruined house, to the left of the two green bushes - North-east corner ruined house, when trying to pass through the hole in the wall - To the far west is a staircase; if you approach it from the right, passing the thin leaveless tree

Now, try to go up the stairs in the middle of Gohn again, where King Tycoon is waiting for you. The floor will cave in underneath you, and finally it is revealed what we had already guesses: the pirate captain Faris Sherwiz is actually Tycoon's long-lost heiress Sarisa Tycoon. Regardless, we need to split. Find the transporter to move.
