<a id="s4-21-1"></a>

### 4.21.1. Ancient Ronka Ruins under Crescent Island

Opponents: Crayclaw (#257)

Container contents: Shuriken x2

Miscellaneous items: Frost Bow (guaranteed Crayclaw drop)

White Spells: Mini

Action sequence! Mid 'nd Cid fly the Black Chocobo to Crescent Island (no, you dafts, not in the middle of the forest!) while you escape with your lives intact from the broken teleporter room. When you can move again, you'll eventually reach a door. Don't mess with it yet, but go down instead, around the staircase.

There's a bedroom where you can rest a while (do so, there's a boss fight coming up). Thought the left door, you can see three chests and a button. Pushing the button won't remove the wall, though. What the hell? Buttons ALWAYS remove walls, it's RPG tradition.

The button gives you a mission. Complete the following tasks in this order, as indicated by every mission statement:

Enter the bedroom and decline the option to rest up. The right-most flowerbed holds a new step:

Take a look at the right-most notes on the table

There are two urns in the left room. Examining the left one will reveal a frog who will stomp out a book.

Damned lever again! Pull it to have the wall removed. Actually, you could've just declined the offer of Pushing the button to open up the option of Pulling the lever right there, but that was more fun.

The chests contain two Shuriken and the White Mini spell. This is likely your first encounter with the Mini status; it changes the affected target's sprite, sets Defense to 0, doubles Evasion% (but not Magic Evasion%) and physical damage is sharply reduced. Now, go back to where you emerged on this level, push the button to open the door (back in the forest, Cid 'nd Mid will fall through a hole in the floor). Continue to find a Save Point, your old Fire-Powered Ship (yes, you can enter the machine room and fight the monsters there if you want to, possibly use your newly-learned !Control to get a Motor Trap to cast Missile on you). Cid 'nd Mid will join you, get excited over the ship since it has propellers and make it fly. Talk to Cid for some trouble.

**Level:** 43, HP: 2000, MP: 500 · **Defense:** 25, Magic Defense: 25 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Coral Sword (common) · **Win:** Frost Bow (always) · **Absorbs:** Water · **Weakness:** Lightning · **Creature:** Heavy, Magic Beast · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, · **Attacks:** Battle, Tailscrew, Slimer

Cray Claw Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Stop, Slow

Cray Claw is pathetic. He's got a glaring weakness to Lightning-elemental attacks, so Thunder Scrolls, Two-Handed Thundara swords, Two-Handed Coral Swords, Thunder Rod Ramuh and simple Thundara spells take him out in two or three shots. He is vulnerable to the Death Sickle's random Death spell, can be put to Sleep, can be Paralyzed by the Whip, can be Stopped by Romeo's Ballad, Latch On and !Calm, you name it.

Note that when you don't exploit his weakness(es), it will suddenly become painfully obvious that Crayclaw's defenses are fairly harsh for this time of the game, so this might prove some kind of roadblock of a battle in certain challenges. With a Guarding Knight present, Craw Claw can only hope to kill a character with a combination of Slimer-induced Sap and Tailscrew, which is quite a rare occurrence. At worst this is a slow battle, not a hard one.

With cheese biscuits ...and mashed potatoes?

After all's said and done, Cid 'nd Mid are geniuses and you have an airship!
