<a id="s4-22-1"></a>

### 4.22.1. The Ancient Ruins and the battle with Adamantoise

Opponents: Adamantoise (#258)

Remember Gohn, Town of Ruin, where you almost had a confrontation with King Tycoon, south of the Desert of Shifting Sands? Fly near it (or approach the location by foot, it's pretty much the same) and the entire town will, holy freaking God, rise into the air. Trivia: the newly found desert houses grassland enemies.

Let's ask Cid 'nd Mid what we should be doing now. It seems even the hidden characters that the Ronka civilization is composed of nowadays have also realized, at some unspecified point in the past, that the Earth Crystal is about the shatter. Which is bad news, but logical enough. They landed the city as to no longer burden the Earth Crystal, but it seems somebody under the powers of Exdeath has initiated flight sequence again. We need to stop that, but we can't reach the thing. Fortunately, the frontal lobes of Mid 'nd Cid are active as always. There's crazy talk of Adamantite which can strengthen the hull or whatever. Let's go find it, it's located in the Tycoon meteorite Galuf traveled in.

When you open the Meteor, dive inside and remove the Adamantite from its location, you've DOOMED yourself. Trying to exit will have a powerful foe deliver woe onto thee. Stand your guard!

**Level:** 20, HP: 2000, MP: 125 · **Defense:** 25, Magic Defense: 5 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 50% · **Steal:** Iron Draft (common) · **Win:** Turtle Shell (always) · **Weakness:** Ice · **Status:** Protect, Shell · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Poison, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack

Adamantoise

Adamantoise is an interesting enemy. He just attacks with a barrage of powerful physical attacks, meaning he falls to the !Guard/Counter combo. He is vulnerable to Ice-elemental attacks, but since he's not Heavy and not protected from Instant Death attacks you'll want to nail him with attacks that take advantage of that. However, note that every time a magical attack would normally connect, it may miss versus Adamantoise due to his inherent Shell status, which in this game does not only affect magical damage output but actually reduces the Hit Rate of blockable magic attack by 50 %. Missile, Gravity and Death Claw all work on the guy, but you'll have a hard time actually hitting him with it. This also makes attacks like Flash, Poison and Slow often miss.

Also, magical attacks that would normally cut straight through this guy's defenses (Ice-elemental attacks) are still halved in damage, so even Frost Rod Blizzara attacks will do around 600 damage. Two-Handed Blizzara Spellblades cut a big gaping hole in his HP pool, though, even through Protect. If your level is 20, Goblin Punch deals a lot of damage as well, especially coming from Ninjas.

Level 5 Death is Adamantoise's bane; it's unblockable and nails him in a single shot. Basically, engage the boss with full HP on everybody, stick in the Back Row, equip Main Gauches and Elven Mantles where possible and you should prevail; you can't rely per se on sneaky tactics, but you should be fully prepared to simply outmuscle the guy. Casting Protect across the board before spending turns on offense will make absolutely sure you've got this fight under control. If not, set !Guard on a Monk and there's no losing.

Fly back to the Catapult near Crescent Island so Cid 'nd Mid can get down and dirty with your airship and the Adamantite you brought them. Meanwhile, you rest up and replenish HP/MP like you should. In the morning: cannons! Bollocks.

You can now use the action button where ever you are on the Overworld Map to either go up or down. Going up will allow you to face the flying ruins of Ronka (why are they called ruins?). Note: the Thief's Sprint support ability can speed up the ship. There are four small cannons here; face them to engage in a battle.

Just for funsies, here's an example of one some focused builds you could have at the moment, modeled after my own personal favorites:

LV 4 Knight LV 2 Monk LV 1 Berserker Kills stuff dead with great weapons, Barehanded was used early on to boost Knight damage and to give the Berserker an accurate alternative, now either Two-Handed or Berserk is used to boost damage depending on my love for the shield at that moment. Can change to Magic Knight in a jiffy versus bosses when so wished.

LV 3 Blue Mage LV 3 Red Mage LV 2 Summoner / LV 3 Time Mage LV 1 Geomancer LV 1 Ranger Magic cannon, shoots spells and healing when appropriate. Both skillsets can be used on a Summoner or something from now on to boost damage. The Ranger is there for !Animals, which uses Magic Power and can be used for healing and miscellaneous effects.

LV 2 Monk LV 2 Thief LV 2 Ninja LV 3 Blue Mage LV 2 Beastmaster Barehanded is used on Ninja, Thief and Beastmaster for extra damage, even if I want their special weapons (Barehanded boosts Strength, thus damage). The utility character. !Blue can be used on a Ninja to boost Scrolls and gives Goblin Punch and Vampire.
