<a id="s4-23-1"></a>

### 4.23.1. The cannons of the Flying Ronka Civilization

Opponents: Flame Thrower (-), Rocket Launcher (-), Soul Cannon (#259), Launcher (#260), Launcher (#261)

Miscellaneous items: Dark Matter (guaranteed Soul Cannon drop)

Blue pells: Flame Thrower, Missile

The two outer cannons each represent Formation A, the two inner cannons each represent Formation B.

Formation A: Flame Thrower (common) Rocket Launcher x2 (rare)

Formation B: Rocket Launcher x2 (common) Flame Thrower x2 (rare)

The Flame Throwers will do nothing but use Flame Thrower, which is a Blue spell you could've learned from Prototype earlier. You can't miss it here. The Rockets will use either Missile or Rocket Punch. Rocket Punch is an attack that your Blue Mage can't learn. It cuts down current HP by 50 %, but also adds the Confuse status. Berserkers are nice against them; the Death Scythe and/or War Hammer is powerful, and Berserkers are inherently immune to the Confuse status. Knights with Berserk set can wield Coral Swords, which is also great as it targets their elemental weakness. The Flame Thrower will always drop some Speed Shakes; the Rocket Launchers will drop Iron Drafts. Both are consumables you cannot use at this moment.

Deal with all of the them with Lightning-elemental attacks. Lightning Scrolls (especially boosted by a magical skillset), and Thunder Rod Ramuh are the best damage dealers as they are MT and don't suffer from MT penalties (like an MT Thundara spell would), but Thundara and Coral Swords work just as fine, only a little less fast. Two Ninjas with boosted Magic Power will take out these weapons with Lightning Scrolls before the cannons can even move. Obviously, if you have any Flame Rings you can absorb Flame Thrower, but it's one of the few benefits of buying a Flame Ring, otherwise a fairly crappy decision at this point.

When you're done, the Master Cannon comes out. Crap. You can engage in a fight with it when you examine it. I strongly suggest you heal up entirely before this fight and install one or more characters with the ability to cast up to level 4 White spells. If this requires White Mages, so be it. Dealing Lightning- elemental damage, and a lot of it, is basically what the coming fight is about, so Two-Handed Mystic Knights, Thunder Rod Summoners and combining !Throw with a mage's Magic Power are all very good to have. Level 5 Death is also a great benefit in the upcoming battle. !Gaia is useless, Wind Slash will appear often and will do nothing since Soul Cannon doesn't take damage from Wind-elemental attacks.

"Diffusion Beam Cannon: Online!" "Laser Crosshair Brightness: 20!" "Safety Lock: Offline!" "Barrel Pressure Rising!" "Blast Shielding Activated!" "Energy Cells 128 % Capacity" "Firing!"

Wave Cannon.

**Level:** 36, HP: 22500 (effectively), MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 5, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Potion (common) · **Win:** Phoenix Down (common) · **Nullifies:** Water, Wind, Poison · **Weakness:** Lightning · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **Attacks:** Wave Cannon

Soul Cannon

Wave Cannon is a nasty attack. It deals maximum HP/2 damage to all characters and sets the Sap status too. If you don't heal between Wave Cannon attacks, you will die the next time. Soul Cannon itself will give a message every turn and will eventually use Wave Cannon right after "Firing!", as detailed above. After it's initial warming routine, it'll only take three turns to get ready for another Wave Cannon attack:

"Diffusion Beam Cannon: Online!" "Barrel Pressure Rising!" "Energy Cells 128 % Capacity" "Firing!"

Soul Cannon has two unnamed smaller cannons on its back, both with an effective HP ratio of 800. I'm saying effective in all cases as neither the Launchers nor Soul Cannon itself will live to see the full extent of its potential; when reaching a certain HP ratio, they will self-terminate with an explosion.

The Launchers will attack with an unnamed attack called Valiant Attack which is a missile set to destroy half your current HP, also setting the Old status. It's really kinda nasty and will probably get you twice before you can take them out. You can take them down in what probably will be two MT Lightning- elemental attacks or the Blue Level 5 Death spell. Whatever, !Release a Prototype for Mega Flare, see if I care. Make absolutely sure to take them out first. Now, it's time to face Soul Cannon.

It's basically just a race against time, that's what this is. Which is why Slow is such an asset in this battle. Characters being able to combine a Thunder Rod and/or a mage's Magic Power with the !Throw ability are the best damage dealers, so set either a spelllist on a Ninja or !Throw on a pure caster. Two- Handed Mystic Knights with a Thundara Spellblade are very strong as well. Set !Spellblade 1 to a Ninja, cast Thunder on both Knives and watch the damage fly. A good combination is a Time Mage with either level 3 Black or level 2 !Summon (!Summon is better). Slow and Haste can prove very useful, and Thunder Rod spells hurt pretty bad as well. If you're having trouble still, !Catch a few Sand Bears and unleash them for 2200 damage a hit, or buy a few Thunder Rods and break them in this battle for similair damage.

You'll probably take a single Wave Cannon to the face even if you're decent on the preparation, which isn't too bad. if you choose your Job and ability combinations poorly, you might find yourself taking more, which is. The combination of steadily decreasing HP, characters whose stats have dropped dramatically with the Old status (even a short while in the status takes a toll on the Old characters) can prove an effective strategy for the opponent if you don't have the pure power of survival.

In a lot of challenges, this is a tremendous roadblock of a battle since damage won't be high enough for you to take out Soul Cannon before you take quite a few Wave Cannon attacks to the face. A lot of Elixirs have been spent across the world in this battle, count on it. In a normal game though, it doesn't matter what your history on Job usage is, four Ninjas with sufficient Lightning scrolls will win you the battle easily.

After the fight, you'll get two High Potions (from the Launchers) and a Dark Matter, one of the three !Mix items you won't be able to utilize yet.
