<a id="s4-23-2"></a>

### 4.23.2. The Flying Ronka Ruins

Opponents: Ra Mage (#62), Ronkan Knight (#63), Stone Mask (#64), Enchanted Fan (#65), Lamia (#66), Archaotoad (#67), Hydra (#68), Ghidra (#69), Archeoaevis (#262)

Container contents: 5000 Gil, Ancient Sword, Cottage, Elixir, Ether, Golden Armor, Golden Shield, Moonring Blade, Power Ring, Shuriken

Miscellaneous items: Dark Bow (rare Enchanted Fan drop), Lamia's Tiara (rare Lamia steal), Dragon Fang (rare Hydra drop), Killer Bow (rare Ghidra steal)

Blue Spells: Flash, Aera, White Wind, 1000 Needles, Pond's Chorus, Level 4 Graviga

First floor: 35 % Ra Mage, Ronkan Knight 35 % Ronkan Knight, Ronkan Knight, Ronkan Knight 23 % Ra Mage, Stone Mask, Ra Mage, Stone Mask, Stone Mask 6 % Ronkan Knight, Ronkan Knight, Stone Mask, Stone Mask

Second floor: 35 % Ra Mage, Stone Mask, Ra Mage, Stone Mask, Stone Mask 35 % Ronkan Knight, Ronkan Knight, Stone Mask, Stone Mask 23 % Enchanted Fan 6 % Enchanted Fan, Enchanted Fan

Third floor: 35 % Enchanted Fan 35 % Enchanted Fan, Enchanted Fan 23 % Enchanted Fan, Ronkan Knight, Ronkan Knight 6 % Lamia

Fourth floor: 35 % Enchanted Fan, Ronkan Knight, Ronkan Knight 35 % Lamia 23 % Lamia, Stone Mask, Stone Mask, Stone Mask 6 % Archeotoad, Archeotoad, Archeotoad

Fourth floor (with button opening path to Archeoaevis room): 35 % Archeotoad, Enchanted Fan, Lamia 35 % Hydra 23 % Hydra, Ra Mage, Ronkan Knight 6 % Ghidra

Fifth floor (all but Archeoaevis room): 35 % Lamia, Stone Mask, Stone Mask, Stone Mask 35 % Archeotoad, Archeotoad, Archeotoad 23 % Archeotoad, Enchanted Fan, Lamia 6 % Hydra

Fifth floor (Archeoaevis room): 35 % Hydra, Ra Mage, Ronkan Knight 35 % Ghidra 23 % Ra Mage, Ronkan Knight 6 % Ronkan Knight x 3

It's one of those typical break-point dungeons! There is nice and elusive equipment, some of the Blue spells are very nice (especially White Wind... White Wind, I love you) and the monsters are tougher than anything you've seen so far. As for strategies, it's nice to have the following. You can Steal two nice items, though they are a rare steal. !Gaia will often use either Wind Slash or Sonic Boom, both of which are very useful. Wind Slash especially has great offensive capacities versus everything but the Enchanted Fans and the Ghidra enemies. !Animals will have a decent (40 %-ish) percent of summoning a Nightingale which heals a decent amount for no MP cost. The other results are also helpful. Having a character summoning Animals all the time will pretty much take care of the defensive aspect of the dungeon.

Ra Mages cast level 2 elemental spells: Fira, Blizzara and Thundara, always on the entire party. You can set Silence, and they're quickly disposed off with physical attacks. They may rarely drop an Elixir, though their common Steal Sage's Surplice is less than stellar.

Ronkan Knight are meatshields and fairly proficient at it as well. They'll often survive a single shot of even your most powerful attacks and while they don't cast any lethal spells their physical attacks, especially !Sling, hurt when absorbed in succession. A common Hi-Potion Steal is worth a shot, they're pretty good at this point of the game. They're vulnerable to Mini, which completely shuts them down; in addition, they have 20% Evasion but cannot evade Aerial attacks so Whips and Bows will never miss.

Stone Masks attack physically only and will never use Flash normally, unlike their Headstone counterparts. They'll be able to cast the spell when Controlled though, so if you still haven't learned the attack this is another opportunity.

Enchanted Fan is a feast for your party. They're annoying to fight due to the fact they absorb what's pretty much your best attack at this point - !Gaia's Wind Slash - but they make up for it in resource potential. First off, they randomly drop Dark Bows, which are stronger Bows for your Rangers which sets Darkness 2/3 of the time when possible. Second, they'll often use Aera, so if you didn't pick up the Blue spell from either Page 32 OR Gigas, here's where you can hardly avoid it. Lastly but most importantly, Enchanted Fans wield the mighty White Wind, a healing spell for your Blue Mage which heals the entire party for the amount of the caster's current HP. You'll need to Confuse or Control them to have them cast it on your Learning character(s), but since it's one of the most useful Blue spells in this game, it's worth it. If you miss it here, it'll be a really long time before you get to learn it again, so make sure to grab it here.

When attacking with a Dark Bow, the screen will flash every time, as it would had you scored a Critical Hit. No CH was scored, though; it's all part of the Dark Bow's weapon animation. The screen will flash regardless of the Dark Bow setting Darkness (66%) or not (33%).

iOS/Android: The Dark Bow seems to be a lot less effective. I can't explain the numbers behind it since I don't know those numbers.

Lamia also has two fabulous prizes for you, though both are harder to obtain. There's the Blue spell 1000 Needles, which causes 1000 HP damage regardless of the target's defensive properties. However, since it's an offensive spell there's only one way to learn it; by means of the Beastmaster's !Control. Have the Controller force the Lamia to cast 1000 Needles on your Learning character, revive him/her and you're good to go.

The second one is an awesome piece of headgear: the Lamia's Tiara. It's got 1 more Defense than the Plumed Hat, 5 more Magic Defense, 5 more Magic Evasion and raises the character's Magic Power by 3. It also boosts the success rate of Sword Dance coming out of the !Dance ability, but since you have no access to it yet it shouldn't matter at this point. It's but a rare Steal though, and if you take a moment to think back to the horror of obtaining Gaia Gear and/or the Javelin, this'll be just like it. Lamia, on the offense, will try to use Entice on your male characters (she'll see through Faris' deceptive clothing and never target her) to set Confuse and may !Slap a person as well, which sets Paralyze.

iOS/Android: Lamia won't discriminate between characters with Entice and may target both men and womenfolk.

Quick note on 1000 Needles; not even regarding the fact that 1000 damage is quite decent at these levels, the spell will ALWAYS work. This means that it's a great way of damaging those pesky unkillables; Skull Eaters, Prototypes, Jackanapes, you name it.

Archeotoad is pretty much an Elf Toad on steroids. Weak to Ice-elemental attacks like other lizards. It'll randomly use Pond's Chorus, so you can learn it if you haven't earlier; just make sure you've got some Maiden's Kisses lying around. An unassuming enemy.

Hydra is the light-greenish multi-headed dragon. It's more or less Lightning- elemental; it absorbs the element and may use Lightning every even turn. Remember Lightning, the max HP/4-damage dealer much like Blaze and Breath Wing? Hydra's are remarkably sturdy but pose little threat overall as their attacks aren't all too powerful. They can drop a rare Dragon Fang, but for you sanity's sake, don't try to farm here. Level 5 Death works nicely to take them out in a single shot.

I'm going to tackle Ghidra in a special way, because there are so many things notable about it. It's a very strong monster that holds treasure.

**Level:** 26, HP: 3000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 20, Magic Defense: 5 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Killer Bow (rare) · **Win:** Phoenix Down (always) · **Absorbs:** Ice, Lightning, Poison, Earth, Wind, Water · **Status:** Reflect (always) · **Creature:** Dragon, Undead · **Special Technique:** !Rush · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Darkness, Old, Paralyze, Berserk, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Rush, Poison Breath, Lightning, Level 4 Graviga

Ghidra

- Ghidra absorbs all elements except for Fire and Holy. In addition, it is inherently Reflective. Damaging a Ghidra calls for physical attacks, Flame Thrower or 1000 Needles. Be careful with weapons that cast random spells (Mage Masher, Blitz Whip, Ancient Sword and most importantly the Death Sickle) as those spells will be Reflected onto your party. Also note that a Ghidra CANNOT be Controlled. The Ghidra is Undead, so you can use Hi-Potions to damage it. This dragon is the worst nuisance on the beach! - Ghidra will use physical attacks, Lightning and Poison Breath, an MT Poison- elemental attack that may set the status ailment. Its power is more or less random as it can deliver between 10 and 100 % of its full potential. - When a Ghidra dies, it'll cast Level 4 Graviga, a Blue spell which reduces the current HP of every struck target by 75 %. However, it'll only hit targets whose level is divisible by 4, so if your Blue Mage wants to learn the attack it better have an appropriate level. The Ghidra will not use the attack if it is Paralyzed or Berserked when it dies. - You can Steal a rare Killer Bow from Ghidra; it's an even better bow than the Dark Bow which has an 8 % chance of flat-out killing the target. Good luck on that one. - The Ghidra is vulnerable to Paralyze, so a Whip or the Remora spell can halt it while you're pounding on it. Make sure to keep track of its HP though, since if you want to learn Level 4 Graviga the Ghidra shouldn't be Paralyzed upon defeat. Darkness also works. Since it's not Heavy, you could try to use a Phoenix Down or Elixir to either kill or cripple it; an Elixir used on an Undead target will have a similar effect to Death Claw, but without the Paralyze. Also note that when the Phoenix Down is turned into an attack, it will suddenly become blockable; Ghidra may resist its effects, but never those of the Elixir. Missile is a great way of damaging the Ghidra; Gravity will bounce off Reflect, so don't try it. - The Ghidra is difficult to deal with. Approach with caution.

If you manage to learn Level 4 Graviga, note that it works on Ronkan Knight, Enchanted Fans, Lamias as well as Stone Masks. Level 4 Graviga deals (75% of the target's current HP) to those non-Heavy targets with a level divisible by 4. Sweet! If the target's level if divisible by 4 but also Heavy, the attack animation will play out but the target will receive 0 damage.

Pass through the first room. On the second level, there are invisible stepping tiles. They're entirely logical as you can see where they start (where the grassy bits aren't there), but you can use the Thief's Passage ability to actually see them. There's also a chest containing a Golden Armor. Finally, we can get our Heavy Armor characters in actual Heavy Armor again!

On the third level there's a chest you can reach only by some less-than-logical stepping tiles. It contains an Elixir; I kinda recommend the Passages ability here. Cross to the other side of the room to see three exits here. Ignore the first you could've accessed, we'll take that one last. The one leading into the middle of a wall takes you to a Save Point. Go to the far right (chest with Phoenix Down on the way!) which takes you to a chest with a Golden Shield. Equip it if you can (30 % Evasion, it's almost as good as an Elven Mantle now!). Get back to the split. The remaining one is the one to take.

The path takes you quite easily to a new chest containing a Hi-Potion in the end. Another split now; there's a door and a stairway. The stairway takes you to treasure! The treasure room has trap holes in it:

x x x x x oo

x = chest o = hole

The chests contain from left to right 2000 Gil, a Shuriken, an Ancient Sword, another Moonring Blade and a Power Ring. The Ancient Sword has a 33 % chance of casting Old (sets the ailment) while the Power Ring simply raises Strength by 3. It's not really that noticeable (maybe a damage increase of 10 %) but it has superior Defense to your current Armlets.

Get back and go through the door. It's all straight-forward for a while until - confound it all - another split, at Level Five. The stairs go to a Save Point, where you can use a Tent and Save up.

Note that here on Level Five, where the random encounters roam, you have your shot at finding a Ghidra. The odds are a mere 6%, though. Exclusive to the GBA game is a trick that you can use. When you Quicksave and then reload the game, you'll have secured the pattern of random encounters for the next few turns. The first battle here will contain the semi-rare 23% formation, the second will feature the ultra-rare 6% formation. This way, you can be sure to fight Ghidra every other turn if you're so inclined, by Quicksaving after every Ghidra. This trick holds true in every situation, but since this is the first time you have any business actually seeking out the rarest encounter, I wanted to talk about it here.

Anyway, there's another split. The stairs take you to two chests, one containing an Ether and one containing a Cottage (a superior version of the Tent that simply refills HP and MP back to full rather than heal 1000 HP and 100 MP).

Now, trace back and get into the only other lead you have, which'll take you to King Tycoon and some monster. A winged snake-monster. That don't go together at all in real life!
