<a id="s4-23-3"></a>

### 4.23.3. The battle with Archeoaevis

Didn't really think this one through, really. So King Tycoon gives you an order and you readily comply; however, being a guardian of the Earth Crystal isn't Archeoaevis an ultimately positive force to you? Oh well, logic was never your strong suit. How's killing monsters with BELLS going for you lately?

**Level:** varies, HP: 8900 or more, MP: up to 10000 · **Defense:** (varies), Magic Defense: (varies) · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Win:** Hero Cocktail (always) · **Absorbs:** varies, Weakness: varies · **Status:** Float · **Creature:** Heavy or Nothing (varies) · **Special Technique:** varies: effects vary · **Special Technique Effect:** effects vary · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Slow · **t Evade:** Aerial · **Attacks:** Battle, !Sap, !Wing Attack, !Tail, !Claw, !Tusk, Breath Wing, Frost,

Archeoaevis Blaze, Lightning, Maelstrom, Entangle

Archeoaevis is a monster that switches elemental properties. The only way FF V is capable of performing this feat is by switching monsters altogether. You won't see it happen, but let me assure you you've killed five monster by the time you've given Archeoaevis his face full of damage. Every subsequent incarnation has lower Defense but higher Magic Defense than the previous form. Archeoaevis changes forms in this order:

**To change:** Absorbs: · **Weak:** Special T.:

**st:** 1600 HP    None            Wind    Sap             Breath Wing

**nd:** 1600 HP    Ice             None    Poison          Frost

**rd:** 1600 HP    Fire            None    Darkness        Blaze

**th:** 1600 HP    Lightning       None    Paralyze        Lightning

**th:** 2500 HP    None            None    Confuse         Breath Wing, Frost,

**Sap:** Sets Sap

**Wing Attack:** Sets Poison

**Tail:** Sets Darkness

**Claw:** Sets Paralyze

**Tusk:** Sets Confuse

Blaze, Lightning, Maelstrom, Entangle

To simplify a little, you'll have to deal at least 8900 HP damage before you've destroyed the serpent altogether. And you'll find that Archeoaevis is a difficult bastard to hurt...

First off, Archeoaevis has quite a lot of Defense and Magic Defense. You can keep track of its HP and know at all moments which elements aren't absorbed. By always boosting the spell cast, Summoners and Black Mages can deal around 800 HP damage with -ra spells and elemental summons. Since the first form is weak to Wind-elemental attacks, Aera can be used for some decent damage, as can the !Gaia ability when it conjurs Wind Slash. After it loses its elemental edge, it becomes worthless.

When the first four Archeoaevis' have been destroyed, the creature will appear to die, but revive in an instant. This is the final version; Defense is actually mediocre as opposed to high in this form, but Magic Defense is soaring so lay off any spells. This thing croaks after 2500 HP. He can use all four of the elemental MT spells the previous forms could use, but adds Maelstrom to the list. Maelstrom is an attack that reduces the target's HP to a single digit, much like Tail Screw. The problem is that it's MT. Be sure to heal up ASAP from Maelstrom. Entangle is annoying but not all that dangerous. !Fang sets Confuse, which is a nuisance. The final form is vulnerable to Level 5 Death, so if your Blue Mages are sick of 1000 Needles, this spell will get the job done nicely.

The big damage dealers are Released monsters (Ronkan Knights attack for over 1500 damage, Mini Dragons cast Holy for about 2000 damage, Sand Bears inflict 2200 HP worth of pain), but these can only be used once and I'm not assuming you've got four powerful monsters stored just for the occasion. Another option that depletes your resources is Throwing Shuriken; they're more powerful than 1000 Needles, and this fight really is the best fight to use them in. Speaking of the attack, 1000 Needles is a great way of dealing damage as well. You'll be hard-pressed to reach this number with most other skillsets, it's unblockable and is never absorbed. Still another good way to cause damage to all forms of the ArcheoAevis is the Water Scroll, since it will never be absorbed.

The most useful tip I can give you, though, is the Berserker. Barrier-piercing properties, anyone? Normally, he'll deal anywhere between 300 and 800 damage with the Death Scythe and between 200 and 600 damage with the Ogre Killer. You can double that with the obvious Two-Handed support ability; were you considering anything else on a Berserker anyway? Support a Berserker with a Death Scythe held with both hands with a Haste spell and it'll be able to take down Archeoaevis by itself. A thing of beauty, say true. For variety's sake, the first form can be struck with a Dark Spark to set its level to 10 so that Level 5 Death will work, but it'll just cause the second form of Archeoaevis to appear like normal.

If you're able to let your party revolve around the aforementioned Berserkers, install one or two Cura (preferably also Esuna) casters and you're set. Heal up Darkness should it hit your Berserker(s). Slow isn't all that useful as it's dispelled every time you 'kill' an Archeoaevis, so just keep focused on healing your main offense. Clothes characters are best off throwing Water Scrolls; Archeoaevis will never absorb Water-elemental attacks and their physical attacks are useless anyway. Should your Clothes characters be able to use !Blue, 1000 Needles is by far the best attack option. The same goes for Mages; next to healing, 1000 Needles is the strongest attack you can use. If the spell isn't learned, -ra spells when you know they won't be absorbed help out. Any Heavy Armor character that misses both Two-Handed AND a Death Scythe or Ogre Killer should bow his head in shame and revert to the Knight for damage output. It'll suck.

A gimmick strategy consists out of taking advantage of unintended behavior of counter-attacking. Archeoaevis will not counter Counter-attacks, and thus will not call its next from when killed by a Counter-attack. Four Monks with, say, !Blue will be able to keep themselves healed with White Wind and wait while Archeoaevis provokes counters with its physical attacks. When the final blow is dealt, Archeoaevis will fall immediately after 1600 HP. You can start this strategy on all of his four appearances to to prevent the subsequent forms. All forms will appear in the Bestiary regardless of their appearance.

For you troubles, you obtain no item worthy of mentioning; a Hero Cocktail normally, but a Goliath Tonic (1st form), Power Drink (2nd form), Speed Shake (3rd form) or Iron Draft (4th form) if you went with the counter route described above.

iOS/Android: You'll gain all five potions at the end of the fight.

King Tycoon heads off, cackling maniacally. This whole part of the game is more predictable than a Friends episode. With the notable exception obviously of that one time Ross slept with Rachel. I mean, oh my god.

Know that once you've followed King Tycoon into yonder room, you won't be able to come back to a LOT of places for a long time with all four characters, some of them permanently. If you have any business left in this world, I suggest you attend to it now; take a quick peek at section 4.25.1 for more information.

The cutscene is long and disastrous. To recap: Like we could have expected, King Tycoon has been under Exdeath's control ever since he disappeared from the Wind Shrine at the very start of our quest. He has likely been used as a vessel for Exdeath to seek out information about the one remaining, hidden Earth Crystal. Before Exdeath manages to kill you using Alexander Tycoon's body, a young girl enters the scene. Krile, granddaughter to Galuf, enters the flying ruins of Ronka using a meteorite. And even though her infantile spellcasting has released Exdeath's hold over Alex, the Earth Crystal still shatters. Bollocks.

Exdeath, after its imprisonment of 30 years comes, zaps you a couple of times to demonstrate its power. It then leaves for its mission; return to Galuf's world which it left 30 years ago and take control over it. The Crystal shards remain under the evil influence of the dark mage. Alex sacrifices himself to save the shards and eventually bestow upon you the all-but final Jobs of the game. Then, the Ronka ruins crumble, having lost their power source.

Escape is of the essence.

The new Crystal shards contain Dragoon, Samurai, Chemist and Dancer. For more information, check up on their listing in the Job section:

[DRAGOON-LINK] [SAMURAI-LINK]

[CHEMIST-LINK] [DANCER-LINK]

The Dragoon uses Lances, weapons that cannot be wielded with two hands (an oddity, if you ask me), but can do double damage with the !Jump ability, inherent to the Dragoon. It has the oddity of being the only meatshield Class that removes itself from the battlefield to attack, making it a rather poor damage sponge. However, it has its own build-in double-damage feature, so you're free to put !Blue or something on there. The most powerful weapon you have at the moment is the Javelin, and the Dragoon is the only Job capable of using it. Javelin Dragoons using Jump deal tremendous damage, but you should really halve the perceived damage since the Dragoon wastes a turn setting it up. At reasonable levels, a Ninja with Barehanded and two good blades deals more damage per turn, but the Dragoon is still extremely capable and is better equipped to deal with high-Defense enemies since the damage is done in one single blow rather than four lesser ones, as is the case with the Ninja.

The Samurai right now equips Katanas, which is awesome. Katanas inflict critical hits like Barehanded punches sometimes do; the downside of Katanas over Swords is that !Spellblade cannot affect them. The Samurai's !Zeninage ability costs money, but deals sickening amounts of non-elemental and purely level-based damage. But it costs money, at a rate of:

50 * !Zeninage user's level * (# of targets attacked)

The Chemist is an odd utility Job that cannot equip Rods and has trouble dealing damage; after 60 ABP it'll learn the !Mix ability, which grants you access to all kinds of powerful attacks, buffs, debuffs and other game-breaking techniques that break the game. !Mix is the best skillset ever. At the very least it gives you the ability to power up Phoenix Downs into Resurrection potions, which revive a fallen ally with full HP and MP. You can use the Blue spell Transfusion to restore a caster's MP back to full, then use a Resurrection potion to heal the Transfusion caster back to full HP and MP. You'll never have MP issues again!

The Chemist itself gets double mileage out of Potions, Hi-Potions and Ethers, presumably because the Chemist is the only Job that understand you need to put them in your mouth. Since the Chemist can double its maximum and current HP with the Goliath Tonic, !Blue is a good action ability since ???, White Wind and Self-Destruct use HP to calculate effect.

The Dancer has poor stats, and !Dance is random. Its most notable features includes a 25% or 50% chance of performing Sword Dance, which is a basic physical attack at 400% its normal power. Tthe Dancer can equip the Ribbon to compensate for its poor stats, and the Lamia's Tiara increases the chances of !Dance its most powerful outcome, Sword Dance, from 25% to 50%, but it's either the Tiara or the Ribbon so choose wisely.
