<a id="s4-24-3"></a>

### 4.24.3. Gohn Meteorite; the fight with the Manticore

Opponents: Manticore (#265)

Miscellaneous items: Dragon Fang (common Manticore steal), Wind Spear (rare Manticore steal)

Blue spells: Aqua Breath

Cid 'nd Mid are taking an awfully long time. Turns out there's a monster involved. Who'da thunk it?

**Level:** 19, HP: 3300, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Wind Spear (rare), Dragon Fang (common) · **Win:** Phoenix Down (always) · **Absorbs:** Ice · **Creature:** Magic Beast · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Silence, Stop, · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack, Aqua Breath, Frost

Manticore Slow

The Manticore isn't all that tough; physical attacks combined with Aqua Breath (300 damage to all) and Frost (250 to all, but adds Sap) isn't too bad, but know that these attacks can kill those with few Hit Points in two hits. The best way of dealing with the Manticore is exploiting its lack of Heavy nature and status vulnerabilities. The Dancer's !Flirt ability can cripple the creature easily. The Blue spells Missile and Death Claw work, as do the Gravity and Stop spells from the Time spell book. And hey, you've still got a Two-Handed Berserker with the Gaia Hammer or Death Sickle itching for business.

Since the Manticore is vulnerable to Death and Petrify, you could Catch a Mani Wizard (Death) or Undead Husk (Break) to take care of it; the Death Sickle's random Death spell will also do it in.

There are two items you can steal from the Manticore. The Wind Spear is a new Spear, but the Javelin you could have obtained from the Sand Bear is quite a lot better and the odds of you getting a Wind Spear are terrible. There are no enemies that are weak to Wind that you encounter before you can buy the Wind Spear in stores, so the elemental edge is also non-existant. The Dragon Fang is a Mix item so inherently inferior to a new weapon, but it's probably the first one you'll get your hands on and it expands your Mix movepool.

The Manticore shouldn't pose you with much troubles. It does, however, pose you with a Phoenix Down.
