<a id="s4-24-1"></a>

### 4.24.1. Karnak Meteorite; the fight with Titan

Opponents: Titan (#264)

Miscellaneous items: Gaia Hammer (rare Titan steal)

Summon spells: Titan

While the girls mourn over their deceased father, Galuf decides to return to his world. A three-man party is left behind to find a purpose in a dying world. It takes but one quick land anywhere on the Overworld Map to convince the trio to disregard Galuf's words.

Now that the former King of Tycoon, Alexander Tycoon has died, a new cutscene has opened up at Castle Tycoon. Entering the castle will have the chancellor ask you if you want to spend the night again; in the night, there's character development and all that jazz.

Cid 'nd Mid should know what to do. Traveling over to the Catapult will inform you of the fact they're traveled to Tycoon Meteorite to return the Adamantite to its former place. Or, you could just travel to Tycoon Meteorite right away, they'll be there even if you don't read the letter they've left behind.

A new mission presents itself, courtesy of Cid 'nd Mid: travel to the meteorites of Walse (the one the golden warrior traveled in), Karnak (the werewolf) and the one which crash-landed near the ruined city of Gohn (Krile's meteorite) and let Cid 'nd Mid work their mojo.

All three meteorites hold their own kind of trouble, so be sure to prepare. The next order is kinda important to follow, so listen well. The monster we'll face to obtain the power of Karnak's meteorite knows a powerful Earth-elemental attack we can protect ourselves against by allowing ourselves to Float. And how would we go about doing that? There are two options. Confuse a Gaelicat and it might cast Float on your party. Control one and make sure it does :) Also, if you have played around with your new Chemist enough to have gained the !Mix ability, Mix an Antidote and Maiden's Kiss to create Levisalve, which sets Float on a single character.

Now, travel to Karnak Meteorite.

Gadzooks! It turns out this meteorite has been swarmed by monsters! Yoink! Up to us to clear out the fallen wishing star. Inside is the nest of the summoned monster, which is the reason I brought you here in the first place. Make sure to Save on the Overworld Map, and bring a Thief.

**Level:** 1, HP: 2500, MP: 2000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Gaia Hammer (rare), Potion (common) · **Win:** Hi-Potion (common) · **Absorbs:** Earth · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical Attack · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Paralyze, Stop, Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack, Earth Shaker

Titan

Titan is a muscle-head, obviously. Physical attacks aren't your main concern, and while Earth Shaker can deal around 500 damage to all characters, you should have been able to circumvent all this drama with Gaelicats or Levisalve. A Time Mage on your side really helps you out by setting Slow and Stop on Titan, though Stop won't last long.

Nothing is super effective against Titan. 1000 Needles is probably your most powerful attack; three thousand needles and Titan is dust. Setting !Black 1 or !Blue or something to a Ninja throw a Scroll is also most powerful. Magical attacks deal more damage than physical attacks, but Stamina helps to survive Earth Shaker attacks when you're earthbound. This is a great moment to !Release something most bodacious, like a Sand Bear or Mini Dragon. Chopping the giant's head off with a Berserker's Death Sickle is, as always, a solid strategy as well; Berserks have HP to spare, which is another plus.

Remember the Berserker with the Death Scythe? Titan's Gaia Hammer is even MORE powerful. It has 15 more Battle Power (30 with Two-Handed), deals the same amount of damage from the Back Row (even though it doesn't say so) and has a 25% chance of using a Earthquake attack, which is an MT Earth-elemental attack. Coming from the Berserker's Magic Power (which should be around the neighborhood of 1) it'll deal around 500 damage to all; this could potentially be doubled for a character with a Mage's Magic Power. A Berserker helped out by !Summon... what will they think of next? Note that the Gaia Hammer boosts Earth-elemental attacks by 50 %.

An important note to make is that you shouldn't shoot for the Gaia Hammer unless you'd like to explore the options it brings. Since Titan has a common steal as well, there's only a 5/128 chance (more or less 3,9%) that a Steal attempt that brings you an item will bring you a Gaia Hammer. Even with an emulator's Quick Save feature, that's a lot of reloads on average. You'll get a Gaia Hammer no problem later in the game.

Titan's Gaia's Wrath attack, in the meantime, deals a LOT of Earth-elemental damage to everything that's not Floating. Gaia Gear you may have equipped and the Gaia Hammer which you are VERY unlikely to have equipped on a Summoner both boost its power by 50 %, making it a tremendous force surpassing every other alternative.

Next meteorite: Walse?
