<a id="s4-24-2"></a>

### 4.24.2. Walse Meteorite; the fight with the Purobolos

Opponents: Purobolos (#263)

Blue spells: Self-Destruct

All seems well until Purobolos descend from the heavens. The name of the beasty remains a mystery; could be spanish for 'pure borons', with boron being a chemistry element. More like 'pure MORONS', amirite. I like to think it stands for 'pure bollocks', a post-modern auto-reference of significance. And ridicule.

**Level:** 22, HP: 1500, MP: 100 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Eye Drops (rare), Potion (common) · **Win:** Potion (rare) · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Berserk, Silence,

Purobolos Stop, Slow

Attacks: Battle, Arise, Cura, Self-Destruct

A decently leveled Summoner with Gaia Gear wielding Titan's power can take out all six Purobolos in a single hit. I'm not counting on you having that, though. Purobolos' can be very, very annoying. Every time one is killed, it revives all deceased comrades with full HP. With 1500 HP and the ability to cast Self- Destruct every single turn, you'll want to deal with them very quickly. So, there's basically two approaches:

The Silence status prevents a Purobolos from casting Arise when dying. It is, however, very difficult to set the ailment and deal sufficient damage at the same time. It's a shame the Mute spell has no effect in this battle.

The best way to deal with the Purobolos is by dealing damage to all targets. Clothes characters can throw Scrolls, which are even better when a spell-list is set to the character to boost its Magic Power. Gaia's Wrath deals around 1100 damage (1700 when boosted), but beware; every Summoned monster attack makes a Purobolos cast Cura on itself, healing for about 200 HP. Aqua Breath deals around 800 damage as well. THE way to kill all Purobolos in a single hit if you're sick of them is the Samurai's !Zeninage; a level 25 character deals over 5000 damage to all targets. It'll cost you about 7500 Gil though, and it's really not necessary. I'd go with a Scroll followed up with Gaia's Wrath or something like that, works like a charm and doesn't cost you nothing except for a single Scroll.

There is an oddity with the Gaia Hammer in this battle; only the Purobolos that is hit with the weapon will cast Arise upon death; if the MT magical Quake triggers, the other Purobolos will not counter, meaning no Arise. Bugged, but it could prove handy.

I wonder where Cid 'nd Mid have Gohn? OMG pun intended. It's below the Desert of Streaming Sands, remember?
