<a id="s4-25-1"></a>

### 4.25.1. Right and Ready

When all has been said and done, the warp spot to Galuf's World is on the peninsula south-east of Tule. But before you go, let's take a look at everything we could've gotten so far and see if we haven't missed anything. None of the spells are missable, and it's no big deal if you miss any.

White spells: Cure, Libra, Poisona, Silence, Protect, Mini, Cura, Raise, Confuse, Esuna

Black spells: Fire, Blizzard, Thunder, Poison, Sleep, Toad, Fira, Blizzara, Thundara

Time spells: Speed, Slow, Regen, Silence, Haste, Gravity, Stop

Summon spells: Chocobo, Sylph, Remora, Shiva, Ramuh, Ifrit, Titan

Blue: Aqua Breath Level 5 Death Level 4 Graviga Pond's Chorus Flash Moon Flute Death Claw Aero Aera Flame Thrower Goblin Punch Dark Spark Off-Guard Transfusion Vampire Magic Hammer Self-Destruct ??? 1000 Needles White Wind Missile

Songs: Mighty March, Romeo's Ballad, Alluring Air

While the spells listed above are not missable throughout the game, the three Songs are. Get them now, or miss them forever.

Pianos: Tule, Carwen, Jachol, Karnak, Crescent

Special treasures: Those in the Cave of Jachol The treasures guarded by Jackanapes

Past this point, you will never be able to return to Walse Castle to collect the treasures guarded by Jackanapes, so get 'em now.

Noteworthy items: The Iron Shield, Cotton Robe and Kenpo Gi all become unavailable forever past this point. If you've never bought any but want a full item list at the end of the game, travel to Walse to buy what you lack in your inventory.

Bestiary (30%): Normal enemies: #1 - #69 Aquatic enemies: #191 - #196 Boss enemies: #243 - #265

Have you gotten enough Dark Matter items from the Prototypes? There's no such thing as too many of them, you know. Scrolls you can always buy in Lix; it'll be a while before you can buy them again. If you plan on using !Mix-a-lot, YOU'D BETTER LIKE BIG BUTTS, I mean, I suggest you stock up on Turtle Shells; they are one of the ingredients of Succubus Kiss, what'll probably by your main attacking move coming from Mixing.

Also, if you want to buy Rings in Istory, it's certainly worthy of consideration. You'll have to fight extra to afford new equipment in the next parts of the game, but especially an Angel Ring is a worthy addition to any team. I'd advise against it as you don't actually need one at any time and it obstructs you from going on when you should, but it's up to you. Scrolls to Throw are also nice to have in bulk as it'll be a while before you can buy them again; especially Water Scrolls and Lightning Scrolls are nice.

Seatbelt? Tray table in locked and upright position? Got your towel? Then, as German-born theoretical physicist Albert Einstein once said: Let's roll.

Three heroes leap into the unknown...
