<a id="s4-26-1"></a>

### 4.26.1. Alien World; Pao Island

Opponents: Pao (#70)

Miscellaneous items: Tent (guaranteed Pao drop)

Okay, so it's not really called Pao Island. It doesn't have an actual name, but it's an island full of Pao monsters without any other features. You think of a name, brainiac.

There's nothing to do here. You can just walk around. There's Pao in the forests, Pao on the grasslands and Pao in the marshlands. Every small minute, no matter what you do, Lenna will suggest setting up a Tent. Never take girls camping, lemme tell ya, all they want to do is cuddle. Save now, and prepare Bartz for a solo battle.

Actually using a Tent gets you a cutscene where Lenna and Faris are 'abducted' and Bartz is attacked by an aptly named 'Abductor'.

**Level:** 22, HP: 1500, MP: 2000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Gaia Gear (rare) · **Win:** Ether (always) · **Status:** Float (always) · **t Evade:** Aerial · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Confuse, Berserk, · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Hurricane

Abductor Silence, Slow, Stop

This is a battle you can lose without getting a Game Over; you'll want to win, though, for a sweet Ether and a Bestiary entry. Since you'll be fighting alone and Abductor knows Hurricane (which it can use every turn), your objective here is to counter that somehow. There are plenty of ways.

A Monk with !Guard or Knight with Counter will net you victory, but anything that allows Bartz to heal is grand enough; the !Blue skillset gives access to Vampire, which will almost never miss. !Time's Stop and Gravity spells are great ways around the fight; Stop will last a long time. That's just for winning the battle, though; if you want a shot at that rare Gaia Gear, a Thief is a necessity. Barehanded, !Mix, !Blue, !White, !Red and !Time all include ways of really screwing this guy over.

The Abductor may use Hurricane on the very first turn, dropping Bartz' HP down to a single digit. NEVER take the first turn; you'll want to be able to retaliate immediately should Hurricane make an appearance. Keep your eye out for Hurricane, heal up when it comes and keep damaging the Abductor until it dies. Show that demon what the Bartz of War is all about.

If you win, you'll get an Ether for you troubles, a Bestiary entry for Abductor and a chest containing...poison gas. Crud, you lose.

If you lose, you'll just get taken away by the Abductor. So no Ether for you, and no Bestiary entry for Abductor either. Crud, you lose.

**Trivia:** if you win the battle, you get to walk around. Notice how the unlit

campfire is one of the very few 2D objects in the game.
