<a id="s4-27-2"></a>

### 4.27.2. Escape to the Big Bridge

Opponents: Devilfish (#73), Treant (#74), Strapparer (#75)

Miscellaneous items: Elixir (rare Strapparer steal)

Blue spells: Dark Spark, Death Claw, Transfusion

Grassland: 35 % Strapparer x3 35 % Strapparer, Treant, Devilfish 30 % Strapparer x2, Treant x2

**Always:** Treant x3

Forests:

**Always:** Devilfish x3

Marshlands:

This is Galuf's world, which is actually quite similar to Bartz'. There are swamps here, can you believe it? Swamps yield great results with !Gaia, as an attack called Bottomless Bog may appear. Bottomless Bog kills everything by being an unblockable Death-setting attack (fails if target is Heavy).

Devilfish are weird fish-like creatures that reside in swamps. They absorb Water-elemental attacks and are weak to Lightning-elemental ones, like most aquatic creatures. When Confused or Controlled they can use Transfusion, so you can learn it from them if you haven't learned it earlier. They can attack physically or by using Digestive Acid (remember, that annoying non-elemental attack which sets Slow and Sap?).

Treants cast Berserk on themselves and allies to make their physical attacks stronger. For your Blue Mages this is a shame, as every second turn they can use Death Claw. If you never learned it from Iron Claw, now's your chance. They're weak to Fire-elemental attacks. You cannot use !Control for Death Claw, sadly.

Strapparer are bizarre creatures entering our world through a rift in reality. This, however, doesn't make them very powerful. They randomly use Dark Spark, so you can pick that up if you haven't earlier, and you can Control them to gain access to the Death Claw spell. They have Elixirs (rarely) for stealing and are weak to Lightning-elemental attacks but absorb Fire-elemental attacks.

Whatever you do, there's nothing to really to do but to get to the Big Bridge to the West of Castle Exdeath. Ramuh makes short work of most encounters here, as does !Gaia when walking in swamps.
