<a id="s4-27-3"></a>

### 4.27.3. The Big Bridge; the second fight with Gilgamesh

Opponents: Merrow (#76), Flying Killer (#77), Little Chariot (#78), Neo Galura (#79), Gilgamesh (#268)

Miscellaneous items: Trident (rare Gilgamesh steal)

Blue spells: Goblin Punch, Aera

Welcome to the Big Bridge! That theme you're hearing is world-famous for being kick-ass, so try not to find it to awesome. You might get 'mainstream'. The Big Bridge houses monsters you'll only find when touching a certain tile on the bridge. All tiles except for the introductionary one (the one that causes Galuf to give his warning) are randomly turned 'on' and 'off' so you could cross a tile which could get you monsters without getting any monsters.

X: Exit 1: Little Chariot x 3 2: NeoGalura 3: Merrow x 3 4: NeoGalura, Merrow x 2 5. Little Chariot x 2, Flying Killer x 2 AND Little Chariot x 3 6: Flying Killer x 3

*** ** **: Midsection, Gilgamesh battle ***

X ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5.. ... ..5 ... ... ... 44. ... ... ..2 ... ... .3. ... ... ... ... ... .4. ... ... ... ... ... *** ** ** *** ... ... .6. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 45. ... ... .5. 5.. ... ... ... ... ... ... ..4 ... ... ... .3. ... ..2 ... ... ... 111 ... ... ... ... ... X

X: Exit 1: Little Chariot x 3 2: NeoGalura 3: Merrow x 3 4: NeoGalura, Merrow x 2 5. Little Chariot x 2, Flying Killer x 2 AND Little Chariot x 3 6: Flying Killer x 3

*** ** **: Midsection, Gilgamesh battle ***

I'd hate to sound less then interested in the monsters here, but the thing is they're rather boring. All of them attack physically only with the exception of Little Chariot, which randomly uses Mustard Bomb, which does about 300 damage and sets Sap. Neo Galura rarely drops Water Scrolls, but no other items of real interest appear. You can Catch none of them, would be a point of interest if you're interested in those kinds of points of interest. Ninja Scrolls and Summon monsters are both able to clean house quickly and efficiently. All monsters here are unique to the Big Bridge, so make sure to meet them all now for a full Bestiary.

Taking that most Buddhist of all approaches, the middle road, will net you the most encounters here. NeoGalura is often missed; keeping to the right of the Big Bridge, below the Midsection, will quickly bring you into contact with the troublesome tapir.

**Level:** 28, HP: 6500, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 14, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Trident (rare), Hero Cocktail (common) · **Win:** Wizard's Hat (always, in theory) · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Old, Berserk, (*Silence), Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack, Jump, Haste, Protect, Shell, Goblin Punch,

Gilgamesh Aera, Electrocute, Wind Slash

Gilgamesh certainly buffed up this time. Contrary to popular legends, you can NOT Steal a piece of Genji equipment from Gilgamesh this time; you'll have to do with the normal Hero Cocktail or the rare Trident.

Gilgamesh will normally attack with physical attacks, Goblin Punch, Aera and Wind Slash. Wind Slash is by far its most powerful attack, dealing just shy of 400 damage to all characters. When he's gotten enough of a beat-down and has but 2500 HP left, the next hit he absorbs will cause a counter consisting out of a demented little speech and the casting of Protect, Shell and Haste, all nasty enough in their own right. He'll start using Jump after that. On enemies, Jump is a physical magic attack; its deal physical damage insomuch that it deals with the target's Defense, but its power comes from the caster's Magic Power. It's unblockable, by the way, and Elven Mantles won't help. The Protect status will, however.

When you "kill" him, he'll use Flee, robbing you of the Wizard's Hat you otherwise would have obtained. He's immune to both Paralyze and Stop, so there's no avoiding it this time.

The strategy to follow is easy. Put together a damaging team that can take a Wind Slash and heal up from it. Casting Mute in this battle will prove very beneficial, since the Haste/Protect/Shell combo really turns Gilgamesh into a nuisance. You can turn your Mages into Blue Mages so you can still attack and heal.

The Ancient Sword is capable of setting Old on the guy, which helps out in the long run. You can wait for a bit until Gilgamesh' level to lower to 1. Mages should stick to 1000 Needles or (when Mute was neglected) boosted Gaia's Wrath, support all allies with Haste, cast Slow and possibly cast Mute before Gilgamesh increases his potential. In the original Super Famicom game, Gilgamesh was vulernable to the Silence status, so you could use that.

Gilgamesh doesn't have any weakness to exploit, so damaging him at this stage of the game where everything but !Zeninage is more or less balanced out is kinda difficult. His attacks aren't that dangerous though, so you'll win the fight for sure.

When you're done, there's the second part of the Big Bridge. Make sure you meet all monsters here if you want that perfect Bestiary.

When you're almost to the other side, the forces within Castle Exdeath and its four Barrier Towers put up the barrier, a destructive force which surrounds Castle Exdeath and forcefully blows away anything that is hit by the barrier. The Light Warriors just aren't quick enough.
