<a id="s4-27-1"></a>

### 4.27.1. Galuf to the rescue; the first fight with Gilgamesh

Opponents: Tarantula (#71), Shell Bear (#72), Gilgamesh (#267)

Miscellaneous items: Spear (rare Shell Bear steal)

B2: 35 % Shell Bear 35 % Tarantula x 2 23 % Shell Bear, Tarantula x 2 6 % Tarantula x 4

B3: 35 % Tarantula x 2 35 % Tarantula x 4 23 % Shell Bear 6 % Shel Bear, Tarantula x 2

It seems Exdeath had a lot of followers waiting for it on Galuf's World. There's a castle and there's an army of monsters, and you're in the middle of it, being held hostage in a jail cell. Resistance is useless. Not even Bartz' Superman reference helps out here.

Galuf appears not to be the type to be impressed by terrorists. He rushes to the castle on a Wind Drake's back, leaving his army behind to rescue his friends Rambo-style. Wait, there's Wind Drakes on this planet as well?

When you're able to control him again, he'll be by his lonesome in a dungeon with random encounters. They're fit for the situation though, so extremely easy.

Tarantulas are weak to Ice-elemental attacks, but with 200 HP they won't live through anything anyway. They may use Web which sets Slow, but only if you let them live to allow them. They always drop Potions.

Shell Bears are a bit bulkier at 380 HP, but you should still be able to kill them with whatever you use. They have a rare Spear for stealing, which is horrible. It's an even weaker weapon than the Mythril Spear (the weakest Lance you can have at the moment) but it's unique so you'll probably want one. If you don't get one now, you'll lose out on the opportunity to obtain one forever, but we can wait until we get our teammates back. Luckily, Shell Bear has no common Steal item so just continue trying until you've got it. You can cast Toad or Pond's Chorus to make life easier on you in the meantime.

The only door you can enter leads to a Save Point, which you may choose to use, or not use, it's up to you. If you press on, you'll end up in an apparantly featureless room. The water on both sides functions as a Recovery Spring, but Galuf starts out fully healed anyway. This first area is devoid of monsters. Basements 2 & 3 have Shell Bears and Tarantula's in them, but they shouldn't be much trouble. At the end of B 3, Gilgamesh waits for you.

**Level:** 26, HP: 11500 (effectively), MP: 2000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Nothing · **Win:** Elixir (always) · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Mini, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop

Gilgamesh Attacks:

A short introduction of Gilgamesh is in order, I believe. Gilgamesh set the tone for upcoming Final Fantasy games; a recurring villain that's more of a comic relief than anything else. Gilgamesh himself would later appear in other Final Fantasy games, switching between a powerful adversary or ally wielding legendary weapons or an incompetent but fierce warrior who wields cheap and useless imitations of said weapons. Surprisingly enough, Gilgamesh is one of the very few characters in the Final Fantasy games that's supposed to be a single entity; his appearance is often justified by 'traveling through dimensions'. Anyway, at this point Gilgamesh is at the starting point of his long career, and but a lackey to his master, Exdeath.

The purpose of this fight is to damage Gilgamesh slightly to that he runs away. However if you actually manage to 'kill' Gilgamesh, you'll get an Elixir! If you want to get it, you'll need either !Time or !Blue, providing you got Death Claw. For winning the battle, just !Time will get the job done quickly enough as Gravity prompts him to escape immediately. The Mini status makes him completely harmless. Just with damage, you only need to deal 1500 HP damage to him, his defenses are absent and his attacks are nothing to worry about. A Main Gauche and Elven Mantle both help, but are not necessary. For Clothes Galuf, anything with Counter works, and Heavy Armor Galuf has the power of the Berserker on his side. You can't really lose.

**Note:** unlike other monsters, Gilgamesh will make a showing in your Bestiary

even if you don't kill him directly.

If you're going for the kill, know that Gilgamesh will use Flee as a counter to any damage he takes damage past the initial 1500 HP. Since Death Claw won't actually damage, just set his HP to a single digit, he won't respond with escape; follow up Death Claw with any ol' damaging spell and you're good. Alternatively, cast Slow on Gilgamesh and Haste on yourself. Wait for Gilgamesh to take a turn, then cast Stop on him. Quickly cast a succession of Gravity or Missile spells 'til he's in killing range, then finish him off.

Better keep him in the back of your head. Because next time? He'll be deadly serious next time.

At any rate, Galuf liberates his friends (don't worry, they're all still equipped with equipment and Jobs) so you can get out. You can once again Save at the Save Point. It's time to get back to Galuf's Castle and regroup, so we'll have to cross the Big Bridge Galuf followed on Krile's Wind Drake.
