<a id="s4-28-2"></a>

### 4.28.2. Regole

Features: Piano, endless 100 Gil machine

Welcome to Regole! It's a small town surrounded by monsters on every side. As a solution to this problem, Regole has developed a secret weapon: alcohol. Regole's beer appears to be legendary. Speaking of 'legendary', to the south lies the sealed castle of Kuza, which houses the Twelve Weapons used in a forgotten war. Let's check it out. For now, the Inn Keeper gives us a free night, so let's take a rest. There's a cutscene.

Now, exploit capitalism.

- **Magic Shop (White):**
  - Blink               3000 Gil
  - Shell               3000 Gil
  - Esuna               3000 Gil
  - You could've obtained Esuna earlier. Neither Blink nor Shell is vital for
  - anything, though both are nice to have. Blink sets two Images on a single
  - target, like the Ninja's !Image ability. Shell cuts magical damage and magical
  - hit rates in half. They're both very good, even if they're not needed in the
  - literal sense of the word. If you're short on Gil, I suggest you skip these
  - spells for now; they are beneficial afterthoughts to strategies at best.

- **Magic Shop (Black):**
  - Drain              3000 Gil
  - Break              3000 Gil
  - Bio                3000 Gil
  - These spells are all awesome. Drain isn't all that damaging but could be
  - useful for your Black Mage; it makes for an awesome Spellblade effect, though;
  - it simply heals the Mystic Knight(-wannabe) for whatever damage is dealt to the
  - target. Don't strike Undead creatures, though. Break sets Petrify, so when you
  - know what's vulnerable it's a great one-hit KO move. Again, you'll be surprised
  - how often I'm going to advise Break Spellblade from now on to circumvent level-
  - based hit rates; physical attacks are much easier to connect. Bio's just a
  - stronger and Poison-elemental spell for your Black Mages. It's stronger than
  - your boosted -ra spells and ignores Magic Defense almost entirely, so buy it.
  - You'll be able to boost it in a short while ;)

- **Magic Shop (Time):**
  - Comet               3000 Gil
  - Slowga              3000 Gil
  - Return              3000 Gil
  - The Time Mage finally gets some serious use! Comet is the first offensive
  - spell the Time Mage obtains. What it lacks in power and dependable nature (it's
  - power is rather random), it's non-elemental nature and the fact it ignores the
  - Reflect status makes it a decent attack. Slowga's just MT Slow. Return is
  - awesome. It allows the player to completely restart a battle, everything about
  - the obtained results erased. This can not only save you when things are looking
  - particularly grim, it's most popular use lies in obtaining rare Steals every
  - time from now on as even one-time only monsters can now be fought until you've
  - gotten what you want. This way, not obtaining rare steals is nothing but proof
  - of your weakness. A second purpose in casting Return could be to re-roll the
  - formation; Pre-emptive and Back Attacks chances are calculated again, allowing
  - any party with the Return spell to circumvent Back Attacks completely if
  - they survive the first round to cast the spell.

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Orichalcum Dirk     3400 Gil
  - War Hammer          6400 Gil
  - Ashura              5800 Gil
  - Sleep Blade         5600 Gil
  - Wind Spear          5400 Gil
  - Dark Bow            3800 Gil
  - Dream Harp          1600 Gil
  - Chain Whip          3300 Gil
  - These new weapons, though all-round new and powerful, won't really mean much
  - to you at the moment. The Sleep Blade is nice, but most people will be using
  - Samurai or Dragoons at the moment. The Orichalcum Dirk is nice for Thieves and
  - Ninjas, the Wind Spear is an increase for your Dragoons if you haven't stolen
  - a Javelin and the Chain Whip is, thankfully, a new Whip with Paralyzing
  - features. All other weapons are more or less useless now. You've - if everything
  - went well - already obtained an Ashura and one or more Dark Bows. The War Hammer
  - is weaker than both the Death Scythe and Gaia Hammer and the Dream Harp flat-out
  - sucks. Dealing 1/8 current HP damage and adding Sleep. Pshw. New Weapons should
  - be your last priority with your Gil.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Golden Shield       3000 Gil
  - Golden Helm         3500 Gil
  - Green Beret         2500 Gil
  - Wizard's Hat        1500 Gil
  - Golden Armor        4000 Gil
  - Ninja Suit          3000 Gil
  - Gaia Gear           2000 Gil
  - Everything's peachy here. The only two things that stand out are the Wizard's
  - Hat and the Gaia Gear. The former shouldn't be bought if you have Lamia's
  - Tiaras as even though they have 1 point extra Defense, they're inferior in all
  - other areas. The Gaia Gear is awesome; if you haven't stolen them from
  - Sorcerers when escaping Karnak castle, you can finally get them. They boost
  - Earth-elemental attacks, oh yes they do, and Titan will benefit greatly from
  - it.

One important thing to now realize is that by combining the Gaia Gear and a !Summon ability high enough to summon Titan, ANY Robe and Hybrid Job can perform as a very powerful mage. This is an excellent opportunity to train those Jobs that normally lack this ability, such as Bards, Chemists, Dancers and White Mages. Remember, Magic Power will be upgraded together with the !Summon ability. The Dancer will even be able to replenish MP by itself due to !Dance's 25% Mystery Waltz performance.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Hi-Potion            360 Gil
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil

Ether 1500 Gil Holy Water 150 Gil Cottage 600 Gil Goliath Tonic 110 Gil Power Drink 110 Gil Speed Shake 110 Gil Iron Draft 110 Gil Hero Cocktail 110 Gil The Item Shops on this planet are notably superior to those on Bartz' old planet. Hi-Potions can now be consistently used by everybody, you can buy Holy Water (useful for !Mix) and the five liquids consumable by the Chemist's !Drink command are purchasable as well. If you wanna know how good they are, try out [DRINK-LINK]. I don't really recommend anything, just buy some Holy Water since you won't have a lot of it, and stock up on what you need more of.

There's a little girl between both shops who has lost her Ribbon. You can talk to her by using the secret passage in the Armor Shop, but she can't be of any use to you now. People are valued by their possessions!

That's all, folks. I'm bored, let's travel south. You'll come across a castle! You were warned about this castle...
