<a id="s4-28-1"></a>

### 4.28.1. The lands of Gloceana

Opponents: Tunneller (#80), Birostris (#81), Fairy Orc (#82), Devourer (#83), Mandrake (#84)

Miscellaneous items: Holy Water (common Fairy Orc steal)

Blue spells: Transfusion

Eastern Grasslands: 58 % Tunneller x 2 42 % Tunneller, Birostris x 2

Marshlands: 35 % Devourer, Fairy Orc x 2 35 % Devourer, Tunneller x 2 30 % Mandrake, Devourer x 2

Forests: 70 % Birostris x 5 30 % Tunneller x 2

Grasslands near Regole: 35 % Fairy Orc x 3 35 % Fairy Orc, Tunneller, Birostris 23 % Birostris x 5 6 % Tunneller x 2

We've been misplaced in space and are currently residing in Gloceana. It's a long hike through monster-infected marshlands to civilization, and the kind of civilization we'll find once we get there is a mystery.

Tunnellers can use Dischord to halve your effective level for the duration of the fight. That's about the extent of their powers. Birostris' will use Transfusion on occasion unless they're alone ,like their palette swaps; we've been over this. The Devourer and Mandrake enemies will just attack you physically and throw some yucky goo your way; either Digestive Acid (Mandrake) or Slimer (Devourer). Note that Devourers absorb Lightning-elemental attacks, so your first instinct (zap aqua-things) is wrong. Mandrakes are weak to Fire.

The most interesting enemies are the Fairy Orcs. If they're struck with a Cure spell, they'll heal the entire party with a Curaga spell. You can write fanfiction on why they do that; I'll proofread that for you no problem. In addition, if they find a character dead, they'll use Paraclete to raise it as a Zombie. Neither of these things should happen to you, but knowing is half the battle and the sooner we can get rid of these things, the better.

You can obtain Holy Water from these creatures, which cures the Zombie status. It's not very likely you'll need to recover from that status anytime soon, but Holy Water is an interesting !Mix reagent.

It's not hard. Just walk all the way to the East. Stick to the Marshlands where possible; you'll definitely have an awesome !Gaia advantage there as Bottomless Bog will just kill the entire enemy party every time it appears.
