<a id="s4-29-1"></a>

### 4.29.1. The sealed castle of Kuza

Opponents: Tunneller (#80), Birostris (#81), Fairy Orc (#82), Devourer (#83), Mandrake (#84), Kuza Beast (#85), Shield Dragon (#86)

Miscellaneous items: Elixir (rare Kuza Beast drop)

Blue spells: Transfusion, ???

Marshlands: 35 % Devourer, Fairy Orc x 2 35 % Devourer, Tunneller x 2 30 % Mandrake, Devourer x 2

Forests: 70 % Birostris x 5 30 % Tunneller x 2

Grasslands near Regole: 35 % Fairy Orc x 3 35 % Fairy Orc, Tunneller, Birostris 23 % Birostris x 5 6 % Tunneller x 2

Grasslands south of the sealed castle of Kuza 35 % Mandrake, Tunneller, Birostris 35 % Fairy Orc, Tunneller, Birostris 30 % Kuza Beast

Grasslands east of the sealed castle of Kuza 35 % Birostris x 5 35 % Tunneller x 2 30 % Kuza Beast

The Kuza Beast looks very, very intimidating right now. It has massive damage potential, too; it uses the Blue spell ??? every turn, and with 5000 HP that turns out to be a one-hit KO attack very quickly. There are few ways to circumvent the Kuza Beasts from ripping you interesting new ways to bleed. !Control is the obvious one. Kuza Beasts can also be petrified, so a Break spell or Break Spellblade effect takes him out in a single shot. If you don't damage the Kuza Beast it'll never damage you, so there's plenty of time to set up your Mystic Knight. Kuza Beasts are not Heavy, so Death Claw + anything is a good strategy as well.

If you enter the castle, make sure you have either !Control, !Flee or !Smoke set on a character, since the following enemy encountered here is almost impossible to either defeat or manually run from.

**Level:** 29, HP: 19999, MP: 20000 · **Defense:** 40, Magic Defense: 25 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 50% · **Steal:** Gold Shield (rare), Mythril Shield (common) · **Win:** Golden Shield (rare) · **Status:** Reflect, Protect, Shell · **Creature:** Heavy, Dragon · **Special Technique:** !Hard Hit · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Knock Silly, Zombie Breath, Flee

Shield Dragon

When you've entered the sealed castle, its halls are derelict. But all is not silent in the halls of the dead; guarding the relics of old, the ancient weapons of yore, are Shield Dragons. They've got quite a bit of Defense and Magic Defense, have an inherent Protect, Shell and Reflect status and attack with a lot of force. Physical attacks are bad; it's Special !Knock Silly sets Confuse. It may also use Zombie Breath, an MT non-elemental and random-damage attack which sets Zombie on every character it kills. There're but two ways to deal with a Shield Dragon. You can either run from them or Control them. Controlling them allows you to use Blaze on themselves for 4999 damage every time. After four Blaze attacks, the Shield Dragon should only have 3 HP left; something a physical in the back should be able to take care of.

Fun fact: !Catch one and it'll use Almagest, an MT Holy-elemental attack. It's not incredibly powerful coming from Shield Dragon (around 750 damage), but it's this game's final boss trademark attack; only this cretin and some other random enemy uses it when Released. Fairy Orcs absorb it, since it's Holy-elemental!

Jumping Jehosaphat!

The twelve weapons have been petrified by the millennium they haven't been touched. Still, they represent a powerful force of good, and their names should sound familiar to most players.

Excalibur Knightsword Assassin's Dagger Knife Sasuke's Katana Ninja Blade Holy Lance Lance Rune Axe Axe Masamune Katana Yoichi's Bow Bow Fire Lash Whip Sage's Staff Staff Magus Rod Rod Apollo's Harp Harp Gaia Bell Bell

Galuf's enthusiasm is touching, but there's really nothing here but dusty and once-powerful museum pieces. Let's get out of here and travel further, down south and east. You'll be able to meet Kuza Beasts on the grasslands south of the Sealed Castle.

Note that between Bestiary entry #86 (Shield Dragon) and #88 (Blood Slime, an enemy from the upcoming dungeon), Bestiary entry #87 will be empty for a long long time from now on, possibly worrying completionists. Don't worry, completionists. The void in your Bestiary and life will be filled eventually.

Eventually, you'll stop encountering monsters altogether, and you have but to go east to enter a forest.
