<a id="s4-3-2"></a>

### 4.3.2. The Torna Canal

Opponents: Sucker (#191), Octokraken (#192), Karlabos (#244)

Miscellaneous items: Tent (guaranteed Karlabos drop)

35 % Octokraken x 2 35 % Sucker x 2 23 % Sucker x 2, Octokraken 6 % Octokraken x 2, Sucker

The monsters of the Torna Canal only attack females, as a Tule NPC was kind enough to mention. However, for some odd reason this appears to include Faris as well, so while Lenna will be glad to spread some of the violence I don't think a pirate captain would like to be viewed as a woman by anything. No matter; he gets to mercilessly slaughter the mysogynist squids so it's all gravy. Another strange thing is that some powerful creature is known to be sealed here. If you got a powerful, violent creature that you want to seal away, the only man-made link between Walse and Tule is about the last place you'd want to lock it up. Oh, well.

Suckers merely use physicals while sometimes using !Ten Arms, which is a stronger version. They're weak to Lightning-elemental attacks, so the Black Mages' Thunder spells take good care of them, killing them all in one hit even when MT'd. They'll only target Lenna and Faris, and whenever both are dead, they'll simply stop attacking altogether.

The same goes for Octokraken, but this one is a tad more dangerous; not only does it not have an elemental weakness, it will also randomly use an attack called Electrocute every second turn which deals about 70 damage to a single (female) target. Take them out as quickly as possible and you shouldn't see it in action. Its special is called !Eight Arms and deals 150% damage.

Obviously, the knowledge that only two of your characters are going to be hit is an advantage. If you have less than four Leather Shoes, give them to the Lenna and Faris. You could make both Lenna and Faris Knights and use !Guard continuously while Bartz and Galuf clear out the field, but the monsters really aren't dangerous enough to warrant extreme caution like that. Just keep an eye on Lenna and Faris' HP.

The Torna Canal is the only passage to Walse, and it's a dangerous one. The power of the Wind Crystal was used to seal away a specifically powerful monster, and since the wind has grown weak monsters have been flooding into the canal. Gosh, here's hoping we don't run into them! The entrance to the Torna Canal lies to the south-east of the Wind Shrine, but honestly, it's not very hard to find.

Bartz will whip out Zok's key and open the gates for you. Lenna's obviously stupefied. Torna Canal, like so many ambitious young canals of our time, is a straightforward sailing route. You might be humored to find that the Thief's Sprint support ability and your normal dashing both work in tandem with Syldra so you can sail twice as fast :P.

After a 45 degree turn downwards, a whirlpool will appear, apparently caused by *gasp* the powerful creature that was sealed here by the power of the Wind Crystal. Syldra's having trouble coping with the stream and succumbs to the power of the vortex. Out comes the boogie man.

**Level:** 5, HP: 650, MP: 100 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Potion (common) · **Win:** Tent · **Weakness:** Lightning · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Feeler · **Special Technique Effect:** Paralyze · **Vulnerable to:** Stop, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Feeler, Tail Screw

Karlabos

Karlabos' most dangerous attack is called Tail Screw. It reduces the HP of a character to a random single digit (0..9). Whenever this happens, a Cure spell or a Potion is in order ASAP. Karlabos' !Feeler sets Paralyze, which can be a nuisance if it touches your White Mage. Karlabos isn't a very difficult boss, and unless you're slamming your head on the controller in a particularly bizarre fashion the worst that can happen in this battle is a single character that falls due to a Tail Screw/physical combo. Karlabos is a great, almost insurmountable danger in self-inflicted single character challenges, but not much to worry about in a normal game.

The Black Thunder spell is the prime damage dealer in this battle, while any character with the Barehanded ability will make great use of it too. All other attacks come far behind. Should a character with the !Blue ability find him- or herself at level 5, Goblin Punch deals extreme amounts of damage, otherwise Aero is the superior attack. You can Steal a Potion, which may not even be worth your turn. You'll get a Tent after the battle.

It seems the tentacled tormenter it still alive, and even in its damaged state it's much more powerful than Syldra. Dragging the water creature with it, Karlabos leaves the ship alone... but without a means of transportation, the pirate ship is as immobile as a rheumatic snail and without his best friend, captain Faris Scherwiz is nowhere near as pro-active as he used to be.

The ship is merely floating along now...
