<a id="s4-30-1"></a>

### 4.30.1. The power is yours; saving the planet one Moogle at the time

Opponents: Blood Slime (#88), Acrophies (#89), Moogle Eater (#90), Lesser Lopros (#91), Tyrannosaur (#269)

Container contents: 4400 Gil, Phoenix Down

Miscellaneous items: Elixir (rare Tyrannosaur drop)

Blue spells: ???, Vampire

There's a Moogle a-treehuggin' nearby, but as soon as you talk to the Moogle, he'll make a run for it and fall down a hole. Lenna's big heart for everything non-human makes another appearance and the crew decides to follow the Moogle and pull it out of its own problems. Welcome to the Underground Waterway.

Note: you could also NOT talk to the Moogle and leave the forest at the other side. However, this'll just get you to a large desert surrounded by grassland and forest. While helping the Moogle creates another location in this part of the Overworld Map, it's not yet there. The two enemies you can meet in the desert, Cactus and Sandcrawler, are not worth your specific attention at this time and place in your life.

"I pushed my soul - into a deep dark hole - and then I followed it in..."

Main cave: 35 % Blood Slime x 3 35 % Moogle Eater, Acrophies, Blood Slime 23 % Lesser Lopros 6 % Blood Slime x 6

Small pathway: 35 % Acrophies x 4 35 % Moogle Eater x 2 23 % Lesser Lopros x 2 6 % Lesser Lopros

*A* battles: Moogle Eater x 2 OR Acrophies x 4 *B* battles: Acrophies x 4 OR Moogle Eater, Acrophies, Blood Slime

Whenever you get into the water in this cave, there are set tiles you're swept past which WILL trigger a battle every time you pass it. Walk into the water, and the current will sweep you onto a new piece of dry land. In the meantime, there's an *A* fight.

The Acrophies are the most dangerous opponents since their physical attacks often come in waves of four are quite painful, especially their special technique called !Pincer. Level 5 Death or a helpful summoning of Ramuh takes them out right away.

Moogle Eaters are just stupid squids that don't really know how to take damage or dish it out. The kind of enemy that brings a tentacle to a gun fight.

The Blood Slimes cannot avoid ANY spell. No, seriously, try it. It's a shame the unblockable Ifrit takes them down in a single hit, else it'd be something to take advantage of. They're inherently Poisoned, but you won't notice since Poison stops taking effects when they're dead, which should be about 2 seconds into the battle. They can randomly use Vampire, but only when they're alive (which they are almost never). Since they're dying all the time, I'm assuming they live from sucking blood from the other monsters here?

Lesser Lopros' have high defenses, are immune to the Poison elemental and can randomly use Breath Wing and Frost to make life difficult for you. To counter, use Fire-elemental attacks and the Toad status.

The best way to deal with every single encounter here - except for the Lesser Lopros - is a boosted Judgment Bolt. It will kill everything in a single hit and isn't as harsh on your MP as Titan is. Lightning Scrolls also function properly. Acrophies are the most dangerous enemies here, as they have quite some Defense and are physically powerful; Level 5 Death works on them. If you have !Summon and/or !Blue set, Lesser Lopros succumb to Pond's Chorus and Level 4 Graviga spells. Having a Thief or another Job with the Vigilance support ability helps prevent Back Attacks, which can be devastating when it's four Acrophies pinching your ass.

On the next dry bit, you've but one options: walk into the water again. Two *B* battles, a new current, a new piece of dry land.

Here, there's a chest containing 4400 Gil. You can take two paths here; the one to the left and the one to the right. Should you go with the left slope, you'll fight an *A* battle and a *B* battle and appear in front of a small pathway where Lesser Lopros are abundant. You can take it to the main exit with a Phoenix Down chest. Should you go with the right slope, you'll fight a *B* battle and then an *A* battle and another bit of dry land before you have to fight another *A* battle. There's the Phoenix Down chest again.

At the end of this rock formation, you'll find "Mr. Moogle" cornered by some Undead Horror. Approach to face the thing.

**Level:** 29, HP: 5000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 20, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Golden Shield (rare), Nothing (common), Win: Elixir (rare) · **Nullifies:** Ice · **Weakness:** Fire · **Creature:** Dragon, Undead · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack, ???, Poison Breath

Tyrannosaur

The Tyrannosaur isn't that hard, rest assured. It's got a big head, a lot of teeth and no flesh to speak of, but that's about it. It'll attack physically every turn, with Attack and !Critical Attack. Every non-magical attack will be countered by either Attack, !Critical Attack or the Blue ??? spell, which you'll definitely want to avoid. It'll kill a character rather quickly into the battle.

When hit by a Wind, Earth, Water or Holy-elemental attack, it'll counter with Poison Breath on the entire party, but that's not too bad since you have no reason to attack the Tyrannosaur with any of those elemental attacks in the first place. The omni-counter takes preference over the counter to the elemental attack counter, so only the truly Magical elemental attacks will provoke Poison Breath; Aero and Aera will; summoning Titan will, Jumping with a Wind Spear, Throwing a Water Scroll and !Gaia's Wind Slash won't.

iOS/Android: They changed Tyrannosaur's Poison Breath counter to react to Magic spells: !Blue, !White, !Summon, !Time and !Black. The element of the attack no longer matters. If the attack doesn't provoke Poison Breath, it provokes the Attack/!Critical Attack/??? counter. For this reason, don't use spells and stick to throwing Phoenix Downs or setting Berserk with a Bacchus' Cider (Holy Water and Turtle Shell) to circumvent the Poison Breath counter.

The bane of this thing's semi-existence is any reviving item. Since its Undead but not Heavy, a Phoenix Down may kill it. Note that when the effect is inverted, it becomes susceptible to hit rates and thus may miss; Elixirs remain unblockable, so they'll reduce Tyrannosaur's HP to a single digit without fail. Tyrannosaur is equally vulnerable to the Samurai's !Iainuki, Gravity spells, Blue Missile and Death Claw spells, the Dancer's !Flirt, you name it. Should you want to go with some straight damaging attacks, boosted Fira and Flame Thrower spells and Fira Spellblade work like a charm.

If there's anything to watch out for in this battle, it's the possibility of ??? appearing, which will likely kill a character, though it may miss due to Magic Evasion. To avoid this, stick to magical attacks; !Time, !Blue (but not Aera!), !Summon (but not Titan!), !Black and !White will never provoke counters, and with only physical attacks to worry about (which can be stopped by Darkness as well), it's not a dangerous fight. In the end, it'll rarely drop an Elixir.

This guy shouldn't be too much of a bother. When the Moogle is free to move, he'll show you the way to something. The message is clear, though; don't wander into the desert. 'Kay.

Whatever you say...
