<a id="s4-30-2"></a>

### 4.30.2. The Legacy of Mr. Moogle; Defiance

Opponents: Cactus (#92), Sandcrawler (#93)

Blue spells: 1000 Needles

Encounters: 35 % Cactus x 3 35 % Sandcrawler 30 % Sandcrawler, Cactus x 2

Onto the Desert! I'm sure there's untold riches. Maybe that love interest for Bartz we're all still waiting for. Or maybe not, but a Moogle is a white and hot -pink bat/mole hybrid, and I'll be damned if we're ever going to take advice from it. It says so in Das Kapital. Also, the Cactus and Sandcrawler enemies that appear in the desert are unique to this location. I dunno about you, but I have trouble sleeping if I know I'm heading for an incomplete Bestiary. Note that none of the random encounters here can be escaped from, not even with !Flee or !Smoke.

Cacti are the far less dangerous critters you'll encounter here. They attack physically and are weak to Water-elemental attacks. You can Control them into using 1000 Needles; if you missed the spell against the Lamia monsters you can pick it up here. They're weak to Water-elemental attacks, so a Water Scroll should definitely come in handy versus them. They've got a Heavy nature, by the way, which is surprising for an unassuming opponent such as the Cactus. They're Desert creatures as well, so Aqua Breath deals eight times as much damage; if you've never done 4000 damage before, now's your chance.

**Level:** 29, HP: 15000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 5 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 50% · **Steal:** Tent (rare) · **Win:** Power Drink (always) · **Creature:** Desert, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Maelstrom

Sandcrawler Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop

The real threat are the Sandcrawlers, thankfully never appearing with more than a single Sandcrawler in a single battle. They have 15000 HP, which is thrice as much as that of the Tyrannosaur you faced a minute ago. Every turn they may use Maelstrom to lower your party's HP to a single digit. They're powerful on the physical attacks as well. They're hardly undefeatable, though. Control one and you've bought a ticket to victory. Petrify works so Break and the Break Spellblade effects will be able to take one down no problem. A Death Potion can kill one, as can the Death Sickle's random Death spell. I'd just go with what the Mystic Knight can offer you (Break Spellblade effects, for the slow people) as it's the most reliable. Aqua Breath, by the way, will deal a LOT of damage as well (around 4000 or beyond, depending on level and Magic prowess), so...

Anyway, there's really nothing here. It's something for your Bestiary, these things don't appear anywhere else. Now, go find that place where Mr. Moogle went off to. The hairball must be around here somewhere. From the west-southern most corner, take one step to the east and up 'til you enter the Moogle Village.
