<a id="s4-30-3"></a>

### 4.30.3. The Moogle Village

Container contents: 1 Gil, 10000 Gil, Cottage, Dancing Dagger, Elven Cloak, Ether, Phoenix Down

As soon as you enter, the Moogles scatter like wild. You can't exit either; some frenzied Moogle will always run past you, blocking your path. There's three trees here with a door; the right-most one is accompanied by Mr. Moogle. In the meantime, there'll be Moogles running around at set intervals. Mr. Moogle invites us over for tea 'nd biscuits. Also, treasure.

When you're done here, the Moogles will have magically understood you're not there to maim their cute little faces and will just walk around. Yes, they all say "Kupo!". In the middle treehouse, there's a Moogle Suit you can wear; in the left-most house there's a locked chest. Wearing the Moogle Suit will cause the nearby Moogle to get his groove on. Love is bought with merchandise, as in all cultures. There's an Elven Cloak inside, which in my case is always good news. If the sheer horror of a perfect Moogle costume lying around in a tree and you wearing it is lost on you, please remain in your basement forever. That's some weird Ed Gein shit right there. I mean, what else are a bunch of Moogles in a forest going to make a Moogle Suit out of? Branches? Sand? Or MOOGLES?

On the Dancing Dagger; it has a 50 % chance of using !Dance as opposed to the normal physical attack. These dance effects are affected by gear that boosts the chance of Sword Dance appearing, so combining the Dancing Dagger with a Lamia's Tiara will work nicely. Whether it's a good idea to equip the Dancing Dagger is a toss-up; average damage output improves a little, but it becomes less dependable. It's a fun thing anyway, and if you're not using Attack it gives some stat boosts. Also note that the Dancing Dagger will never let the wielder dance when !Mug or !Focus is used. Official artwork depict the Dancing Dagger is a weird three-bladed knife in a W shape.

When you've raided the Moogle Village of its contents, talking to Mr. Moogle

will get you out of there through a long and interesting cutscene.

**Fun fact:** Krile appears to have the Power of Heart, rounding out the Planeteers

in this game nicely.
