<a id="s4-31-1"></a>

### 4.31.1. Castle Bal

Opponents: Objet d'Art (#99), Abductor (#270)

Container contents: Angel Robe, Hero Cocktail

Miscellaneous items: Great Sword, Lamia's Harp, Power Armlet (rare Aductor steal), Twin Lance (rare Objet d'Art steal)

Time spells: Teleport

Blue spells: Death Claw, Vampire

...Don't push it, kid. Here in Bal, bad jokes like that will get you PUNished...

Castle Bal's your chance to regroup, come up with a plan versus Exdeath and take a rest you've truly deserved. It's a tense situation though; monsters under Exdeath's banner are surrounding the castle and Bal's army is ever shrinking in size. But let's focus; there's some nice options for you to exploit. When you're done with the cutscene (props for the translation), there's a chest containing a Hero Cocktail and a secret passage leading to a chest containing the Teleport spell the NPC soldier is talking about.

The left-most building in the courtyard takes you to the shops!

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Orichalcum Dirk     3400 Gil
  - War Hammer          6400 Gil
  - Ashura              5800 Gil
  - Sleep Blade         5600 Gil
  - Wind Spear          5400 Gil
  - Dark Bow            3800 Gil
  - Dream Harp          1600 Gil
  - Chain Whip          3300 Gil
  - If you declined to buy some weapons in Regole, you can pick them up here! But
  - they won't be stellar.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Golden Shield       3000 Gil
  - Golden Helm         3500 Gil
  - Green Beret         2500 Gil
  - Wizard's Hat        1500 Gil
  - Golden Armor        4000 Gil
  - Ninja Suit          3000 Gil
  - Gaia Gear           2000 Gil
  - Gauntlet            3000 Gil
  - You may think this is the same as before, but 'tis not! The Gauntlet is new.
  - It's an accessory for Heavy Armor characters; it adds some more Defense than
  - the Mythril Glove, but it's not that good if you have Elven Mantles to spare.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Hi-Potion            360 Gil
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil

Ether 1500 Gil Holy Water 150 Gil Cottage 600 Gil Goliath Tonic 110 Gil Power Drink 110 Gil Speed Shake 110 Gil Iron Draft 110 Gil Hero Cocktail 110 Gil This is all identical to the shops in Regole.

Take the stairs up. On the wall here, there's stairs downwards, but they're blocked from your vision by the tower. Just walk to the right. Take the stairs all the way down. The NPC here is has some good advice and there's a chest containing an Angel Robe. No longer "Physician, heal thyself" applies; the Angel Robe can only be worn by the Chemist (and Freelancers, obviously) and protects the wearer against the Poison element and status. The Angel Robe also gives 25 % Magic Evasion, which is actually unrivaled in the entire game as far as a single piece of equipment is concerned (the Aegis Shield works differently, mind). The Angel Robe looks like a traditional white nurse's uniform.

See the button behind the counter? You can push it from behind to open up a door in the wall. So THAT's how those merchants always get to those places! If you stand in between them, they'll forcefully throw you out of their business. Also, they'll give you a Lamia's Harp, a weapon that deals 3/16 maximum HP to non-Heavy targets and sets Confuse. You have no business with the thing since it deals poor damage and you can MT Confuse with Alluring Air, but the thought is nice.

You can enter the moat surrounding Castle Bal in the bottom-left corner. Enter, go to the left, ignore the button and go all around the castle. On the far side of the moat in the bottom-left corner, a Great Sword has fallen in the water. Grab it. It's super-hidden and no part of your Treasure %. You can return by pushing the button.

In Basement 1 of the main building, there's a Save Point. Going further into the depths of Castle Bal will get you in a featureless room with but one point of interest; the random appearance of enemies.

70 % Objet d'Art x 2 30 % Objet d'Art x 5

Objet d'Art enemies are "stone warriors with souls full of malice" as the game describes them at a later point of the game. They attack physically and cast the Break spell, but only have the MP to cast it once. When hit by a Gold Needle, they'll disappear by using Vanish. They've got 3300 HP and are weak to Lightning-elemental attacks. You can learn Death Claw from them, but only when you Control one and use an Ether on it to increase its MP. Another big selling point of these opponents is the Twin Lance. It's a rare steal but quite the awesome weapon. It's 20 Attack Power better than the Orichalcum Dirk and hits TWICE every time, actually more or less doubling it's normal damage output. It can only be used by Thieves, Ninjas and Freelancers though. When used with !Focus, or !Mug, the Twinlance will hit only once. If you've got the stomach for the time investment needed, they'll turn a Ninja with Barehanded into a straight-up murder machine. I'm talking four hits of 700 damage each.

The x 2 formation gives off 4 ABP, the x 5 formation gives off 8 ABP. In addition, they can be easily defeated by Level 5 Death, which kills them all. Objet d'Art enemies are often used to train; not for Experience as they hardly give any, but simply to obtain such top-tier and usually late-game abilities such as !Doublecast, !Rapid Fire or Dual-Wield. I won't count on you doing this as it by no means is necessary and it seems wasteful of one's precious time, but if you want to do it, it does help out tremendously.

On the top floor of the main building, Krile is in distress. The Wind Drake that helped Galuf rescue Bartz 'nd the lot has overstrained itself in said mission. Never mind the current political situation (you know, the WAR thing) or the practical impossibility of sneaking past Exdeath's armies, everybody agrees on the fact that playing for veterinarian to an admittedly useful drake takes priority.

As soon as you're done toying around with the flying statues of death, you can go talk to the soldiers guarding the gates. King Galuf will order them to open the gates, which they'll do for you. It'll net you a battle with a SINGLE Abductor, the apparent entirety of Exdeath's stationed demon horde.

The fight versus this guy is hardly worthy of description; he can use Vampire and Hurricane, so watch out. Vulnerable to Stop and Confuse, not Heavy. You can Steal a rare Power Armlet if you want one, you'll be able to buy those in a few minutes. Death Claw is probably your best bet, otherwise send in a Time Mage to cast Stop and Demi amidst some physical action. The guy has only 2500 HP.
