<a id="s4-31-5"></a>

### 4.31.5. The fight with Dragon Pod

"Grass isn't supposed to attack people!"

The last Wind Drake of Lenna's world is still alive as far as we know, but the last Wind Drake of Galuf's world is dying as we speak. Things aren't looking too hot for the Wind Drake race as a whole, I'd say, and that's partly because of this vile thing; the dragon grass mutated. Maybe this is what Darwin meant, but that doesn't make it a useful thing to have happened. We still need the dragon grass no matter how big and powerful it grows, so let's see if we can cut down this thorned rose.

**Level:** 33, HP: 12000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 40 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Win:** Elixir (always) · **Creature:** Humanoid · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Stop, Slow · **Attacks:** -

Dragon Pod

**Level:** 31/33/35, HP: 100, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 50 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 30% · **Win:** Phoenix Down (rare) · **Special Technique:** varies · **Special Technique Effect:** varies · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Toad, Mini, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, · **Attacks:** !Silver Powder / !Poison Powder / !Darkness Powder /

Dragon Flower (all five) Paralyze, Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop !Paralyze Powder / !Confuse Powder

It's a silly battle, trust me. Dragon Pod does nothing but sit there and remain fairly sturdy what with its 12000 HP and soaring Magic Defense. In the meantime, every turn it takes it summons Dragon Flowers. These little things attack physically with their damaging special techniques, and are arranged thusly:

5 1 4 3 2

1: Silver Powder: Unblockable, ignores Defense, sets Old 2: Poison Powder: Unblockable, ignores Defense, sets Poison 3: Darkness Powder: Unblockable, ignores Defense, sets Darkness 4: Paralyze Powder: Unblockable, ignores Defense, sets Paralyze 5: Confuse Powder: Unblockable, ignores Defense, sets Confuse

All Dragon Flowers have a mere 100 HP, so any attack will kill them; with their amazing Magic Defense though, magical attacks will have to hit hard to do anything besides 0 damage. When you have to manually MT the spell, it's unlikely it'll do anything. Ifrit and its brethren will do little damage as well; Titan manages nicely, though, especially when boosted by Gaia Gear. !Kick is the supreme way of dealing with the Dragon Flowers; it takes no MP, kills everything that it hits and hits always, since Dragon Flowers have no Evasion.

Defensive options a-plenty, though. A Bone Mail character will only take effects from !Paralyze Powder and Golem's Earthen Wall will stop all these attacks completely. Setting Berserk on the Dragon Pod (either by Mixing a Kiss of Blessing or Bacchus' Cider) causes the Dragon Pod to start attacking but will stop him from resurrecting the Dragon Flowers constantly. !Recover, the Chemist's third action ability, cures all the status ailments that can be set by the Dragon Flowers from the entire team for no MP cost. I always struggled to find an actual use for the Chemist's later action abilities, so if there ever was one, this is it...

The Dragon Pod, though having a lot of HP and Magic Defense, lacks a Heavy Nature so there are a LOT of things to cripple this thing quickly. The Killer Bow's special effect, a Death Potion (Phoenix Down + Dark Matter), the Blue spells Missile and Death Claw, it all works. If you want to kill this thing with Harps, the Lamia Harp deals 32.5% current HP damage to it. When you Release a Bone Dragon you could Catch right here in Drakenvale, its Bone attack will drop Dragon Pod's HP to a single digit. Releasing an Aquathorn will have it cast Death, which may kill Dragon Pod instantly as well. After a Dark Spark, the Dragon Pod becomes vulnerable to Level 4 Graviga... hey, a boss battle use for Level 4 Graviga!

Simply summon Golem at the start and you're pretty much set, all the rest is just especially quick. You get an Elixir for your troubles.

Random note: according to the game data, both the Dragon Pod and Dragon Flowers would be under the effects of Regen. This is because plants absorb nutrients from the ground, causing them to regrow leaves in a matter of seconds. But they're not under the effects of Regen, due to a bug.

If you need anymore ABP or Dragon Fangs, you can hike back down; the Time spell Teleport instantly takes you to the foot of Drakenvale as well, but walking back means more Dragon Fangs for you. Now, travel all the way back to Castle Bal. There's nothing of interest in Quelb. You'll have to take a detour through the moat of Castle Bal to actually enter, but that's a quick thing. Everybody needs to break into his own house every now and then, right?

Right?

If you're walking back to Bal Castle, and you feel like Catching an Aquathorn since they cast Death upon release and the next boss is vulnerable to that status ailment, then by all means grab one.
