<a id="s4-31-3"></a>

### 4.31.3. The town of Quelb and Lord Kelger Vlondett

Miscellaneous items: Kornago Gourd, Potion x24

Songs: Requiem

It seems we can just pass though the town. We're in a hurry, so let's just get to that gate and return later when things have quieted down. No such luck; upon further inspection, the gate is closed. Kelger, leader of Quelb and former Warrior of Dawn should be able to help us.

Strangely, the entire town appears to be closed. Shops are closed, the Inn is closed and nobody seems to be around. The only house open to us is the big'un, but there's nobody there. Enter and leave, and you'll hear a voice stopping you.

Lord Kelger Vlondett perhaps never was the strongest warrior amidst those of Dawn, but his fiery spirit knows endurance unheard of, and his lust for righteousness, though simple in nature, has made him a force of light to be reckoned with. In his old age he has weakened, but even the slightest fragrance of a connection to Exdeath prompts Kelger to test the new Light Warriors in the person of Bartz. His Lupine attack fails to deliver.

Dorgann Klauser, father to Bartz Klauser, turns out to be the one who has taught Bartz to deflect the alien Lupine attack. Dorgann's name is all too familiar to both Warriors of Dawn...

When all is said and done, get on the move. The shops here have some excelling material to offer.

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Orichalcum Dirk     3400 Gil
  - War Hammer          6400 Gil
  - Ashura              5800 Gil
  - Sleep Blade         5600 Gil
  - Wind Spear          5400 Gil
  - Dark Bow            3800 Gil
  - Dream Harp          1600 Gil
  - Chain Whip          3300 Gil

Kodachi 5100 Gil Killer Bow 5000 Gil Poison Rod 1500 Gil Shuriken 2500 Gil Flame Scroll 200 Gil Water Scroll 200 Gil Lightning Scroll 200 Gil Most that can be bought here could also be purchased earlier, so I won't be discussing it. The new Kodachi is useless; it's weaker than the Twin Lance even if the latter hadn't hit twice, and has no special effects. The Killer Bow has that 8 % chance to one-hit KO a non-Heavy target, which is nice; if you never obtained a Killer Bow earlier (could've stolen one from Ghidras), I suggest you pick one up now. Official artwork for the game depicts the Killer Bow as a crossbow, by the way. The Poison Rod is the Rod that boosts your new Bio spells by 50%. If you plan on using Black Magic in the near future, definitely get one or two Poison Rods. The Scrolls are also for sale again; Flame Scrolls will serve you the best in the next dungeon.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Golden Shield       3000 Gil
  - Golden Helm         3500 Gil
  - Green Beret         2500 Gil
  - Wizard's Hat        1500 Gil
  - Golden Armor        4000 Gil
  - Ninja Suit          3000 Gil
  - Gaia Gear           2000 Gil
  - Gauntlet            3000 Gil

Twist Headband 3500 Gil Power Sash 4500 Gil Power Armlet 2500 Gil Nothing new here but some equipment for Clothes characters. Just buy whatever you need; both the Twist Headband and Power Sash have some nice stat boost and are better on defenses than your old gear, so simply upgrade. You already got a Power Armlet (maybe even two if all went well); you'll want to stick to Elven Mantles, so disregard its existence.

The Magic Shop sells no new spells, so I won't bother listing them; they're identical to Regole's selection.

At the Inn, you can get your hands on 'Quelb's finest dishes' which completely restore you. You'll have to sit at the table for the werewolf offering you this meal to go get them. He gives you 8 Potions and an after-dinner service for the first three times. Beware though: every time you order a dish, a sheep grazing outside will vanish. Oh well, no ewes is good ewes, I always say.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Hi-Potion            360 Gil
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil

- **Wolves are selling items at the Inn, how amusing. You'll be able to see the**
  - Poison status appear a lot in the next dungeon, so unless you plan on bringing
  - a character capable of casting Poisona, make sure you have a surplus of
  - Antidotes to un-un-unpoison.

In the top-right corner of the town, three werewolves are a-praying for your safe return. While their crude and animalistic religious devices are amusing, one of them teaches you the Requiem Song which is completely worth the slightly embarrassing rite. Requiem is an MT non-elemental barrier-piercing magical attack that's over FOUR times as powerful as something like a Fira spell. It only hurts creatures with an Undead nature, though. In Drakenvale, the two most dangerous random encounters are Undead, so bringing one or two characters with the !Sing ability wouldn't be a bad idea. Due to bad stats and poor equipment, Bards are generally a pain to keep around; Drakenvale is a place where they're really useful, so now's your chance!

**really awesome:** P

You can mess up their ceremony by standing in front of them, btw. You can deflect their little routine so that they'll run into walls 'nd stuff, it's

An old man is searching in a well for a frog. If you go outside to !Catch a Kornago, you'll make him happy. As you know, Kornagos tend to Flee when they're weak enough to be caught, but they're not Heavy and vulnerable to Paralyze so Death Claw is awesome to both weaken and incapacitate them. If you approach the old man with a Kornago in your 'inventory', he'll offer a bargain; your Kornago and 10000 Gil for his Kornago Gourd. I'd take it; the Kornago Gourd is a heavy, heavy jar which occupies an Accessory slot. Rather than 1/8 maximum HP, the bare minimum to catch a monster with !Catch is 1/2 maximum HP with the Kornago Gourd equipped. If you don't have the 10000 Gil to fork over, no matter; this well, this old man and Kornago toads will always be here. It's no part of your Treasure% either, so no worries there.

When you're done in Quelb, it's time to travel to Drakenvale, where the dragon grass awaits your arrival.
