<a id="s4-31-4"></a>

### 4.31.4. Drakenvale

Opponents: Drippy (#100), Lycaon (#101), Bone Dragon (#102), Poison Eagle (#103), Zombie Dragon (#104), Golem (#271), Dragon Pod (#272), Dragon Flower (#273), ??? (-)

Container contents: 5000 Gil, 7000 Gil, Bone Mail, Cottage, Hypno Crown, Phoenix Down, Wind Slash

Miscellaneous items: Dark Matter (rare Zombie Dragon steal), Dragon Fang (guaranteed Zombie Dragon drop), Elixir (guaranteed Dragon Pod drop), Hayate Bow (rare Poison Eagle steal), Golem (guaranteed Golem drop)

Summon spells: Golem

Blue spells: Magic Hammer

Caves: 35 % Zombie Dragon 42 % Zombie Dragon, Poison Eagle, Drippy 23 % Bone Dragon x 2

First two slopes:

35 % Drippy x 2

35 % Lycaon

**23 % ??? > Lycan x 5**

6 % Lycaon x 5

Bridge slope:

35 % Bone Dragon, Drippy x 2

35 % Poison Eagle x 2

**23 % ??? > Lycan x 5**

6 % Lycaon x 5

Bone Mail slope:

**35 % Golem, Bone Dragon, Zombie Dragon > Lycan x 5**

35 % Poison Eagle, Drippy

**23 % ??? > Lycan x 5**

6 % Lycaon

Dragon grass slope:

**35 % Golem, Bone Dragon, Zombie Dragon > Lycaon x 5**

35 % Bone Dragon, Poison Eagle, Lycaon x 2

23 % Bone Dragon x 2

6 % Lycaon

Drakenvale is home to many mysterious creatures; undead dragons are but a grim memory of Drakenvale's former glory as the roost of the Wind Drake populace, its critters are aggressive but never a picture of health and among the slopes of Drakenvale climbs a monster of mud and stone, the Golem. It is a place of no return, rugged cliffs once dominated by a dragon population now in decline. And somewhere, possibly, grows the dragon grass...

??? is an odd encounter you won't be able to do anything with; this is the Golem we'll truly meet later. For now, he simply recognizes you as a threat (what, like you wouldn't mindlessly attack him), get in a physical attack and immediately Flee.

Drippies are Pao palette swaps. They're like pigmy Berserkers, I dunno. You can Control them into using Magic Hammer on a character with Learning if you didn't pick the attack up from Byblos. They may even use it normally on you, aside from normal physical attacks and !Axe, which is just a bit more powerful. They're little threat and not that interesting. They're weak to Poison- elemental attacks.

Lycaon attack in great numbers. They're weak to Fire-elemental attacks, so Fire Scrolls and Ifrit's Inferno both help clear them out. They may drop Holy Water, but that's about it.

Bone Dragons are one of the two more formidable opponents Drakenvale houses. Undead Dragons, they're weak to Fire-elemental attacks and may use Bone, an attack that's entirely like Hurricane; it drops a single character's HP to a single digit. Their !Tail sets Paralyze when they attack with it, but there's nothing you can do about that. They're not that hard to defeat; Requiem is a very potent weapon when facing these things, as are attacks such as Gravity and Missile.

Poison Eagles have only 100 HP, but evade a lot of attacks. Anything that's not normally blockable will help, such as spells, !Aim and Ninja Scrolls. They will swoop down and set Poison with their !Claw special. You can rarely steal a Hayate Bow from them; they have no common steal so that's nice. Goblin Punch and !Aim can help target the elusive birds of prey; they can't evade Bows and Whips either, so Beastmasters and archers are in luck.

The Hayate Bow is actually really powerful at this stage of the game; it's a shame it had to go toe-to-toe with the Twin Lance surfacing as an option for Clothes characters, as that's a battle it loses. It has a 25 % of performing !Rapid Fire, which basically makes the Hayate Bow attack four times in a row at half strength while disregarding the opponent's Defense. It's also unblockable. Basically, for a little randomness you get more power.

Zombie Dragons are the hardest enemies you face here; they are Undead Dragons like Bone Dragons yet more sturdy; they have 4590 HP, which is a lot. Next to physical attacks, Zombie Dragons may use Poison Breath if the battle drags on (if it's allowed to take three turns, actually), so try to prevent that. Check your Chemists totally ignore damage done by Poison Breath, by the way. Crank that Angel Robe. Zombie Dragons are not Heavy, so you could take advantage of that; they are vulnerable to Paralyze and Sleep, so that stops them; Requiem deals a lot of damage, as do Fire-elemental attacks. They have a rare Dark Matter for you to steal, and no common item. Paired with a guaranteed Dragon Fang drop every time you kill one, facing Zombie Dragons is a Mix user's slightly erotic dream.

On the whole, there are quite a few powerful attacking methods you can employ here. Requiem will deal around 2000 damage to the Bone and Zombie Dragons; give a Bard a Mage's Magic Power to increase damage done (or set !Sing to a Job with much magical aptitude). A Ninja with two Twin Lances can deal around 2500 damage when all four hits connect, using !Gaia on the slopes may result into Cave-In which is extremely powerful. The Hayate Bow is fun to sling between 1000 and 2000 damage from the Back Row. You can't really go wrong, though take into account Drakenvale is simply a very handy place to level or even master the Bard Job in; in the future !Sing is an awesome ability while Bards are a bad idea due to low HP, all-round horrible stats and poor equipment options. Berserkers are not very handy, since they may mess up your encounter with Golem and the Dragons.

A note on every ??? formation and formations including the Golem opponent: when property defeating a Golem, Bone Dragon, Zombie Dragon formation all these formations will be replaced by Lycaon x 5.

It's a straight path through Drakenvale for the most part. Just follow the trail! There's a small grotto containing a chest with 5000 Gil in it when you first enter Drakenvale; loot it and press on on the slopes. You'll go past a chest containing a Cottage before you get to a big bridge. Cross it, it's what it was made for. There's a small cavern pathway before you come across a slope with bones scattered around the place. There are two items of interest here; a Bone Mail hidden in the bones just beneath the second dragon skull you see, and the illustrous Golem, Bone Dragon, Zombie Dragon monster formation.

The Bone Mail falls in the 'Clothes' category, and it gives vastly superior Defense and Magic Defense to anything you have at the moment. It allows the wearer to absorb Poison-elemental attacks and protects against the Poison, Darkness, Old, Confuse and Berserk status ailments. This, however, comes at a great cost. A character wearing the Bone Mail becomes Undead in every sense of the word; what would work on Undead monsters now works on Bone Mail wearers. Spells such as Cura and Nightingale deal damage rather than heal, Death spells and Death Potions instantly restore a Bone Mail wearer to full health and revival items kill one instantly. In addition, when a Bone Mail character actually dies due to HP loss, there is NO way to revive him or her since revival items stopped working. To make the picture complete, Bone Mail wearers obtain some properties the game designers felt were more or less inherent to Undead creatures; a characters wearing the Bone Mail will take double damage from Fire- and Holy-elemental attacks and Regen can't be set.

It's difficult to say if the Bone Mail is fit to replace 'normal' equipment. In any normal fight where you're not planning on healing by any means next to the Blue White Wind spell, the Bone Mail will simply grant you extreme defense, additional magic defense and a whole slew of status immunities. However, in boss fights you'll want to be able to cure, and a disability to revive one-fourth of your cast is a bad thing. Personally speaking, I know you'll get by fine without the Bone Mail and I'm just annoyed to see a random Nightingale hurt a character, but there are many who disagree with that statement and the Bone Mail will from now on ALWAYS be equipped by Optimum so you'll have to decide for yourself.

When you've found the Bone Mail, you can see a cave. Enter the opening to find yourself in a room with a skull button you can't reach and something that looks like a door you can't open. Go stand between that door and the skull button and the 'door' and take two steps to the right to tumble down a hole! Geomancers will trigger the trap without falling, but you'll want to go down that hole. Open the chest, enter the door, push the skull button, go back and leave the other way and exit. There is now a slope to continue your journey through Drakenvale.

But first, that Golem battle.

**Level:** 3, HP: 2500, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0, Magic Evasion: 0 · **Steal:** Gold Needle (common and rare) · **Win:** Golem (always) · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, Confuse, Berserk, · **Attacks:** -

Golem Silence, Slow, Stop

**Level:** 37, HP: 3000, MP:500 · **Defense:** 40, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Absorbs:** Poison · **Creature:** Heavy, Dragon, Undead · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Darkness, Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop, · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Bone

Bone Dragon Regen

**Level:** 37, HP: 4000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 20, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Absorbs:** Poison · **Weakness:** Fire · **Creature:** Heavy, Dragon, Undead · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Darkness, Old, Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop, · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Vampire, Poison Breath

Zombie Dragon Regen

This is a strange battle; note that all three monsters are different from the ones you saw earlier; the two Dragons are Heavy, have no items on them, the Bone Dragon has a different special technique (the generic !Critical Attack rather than !Tail, and it doesn't set Paralyze either) and the Zombie Dragon is the only Zombie Dragon ever that could use Vampire.

Here's the deal. Even though Golem is a non-human creature like the rest of Drakenvale's inhabitants, that doesn't mean that sometimes, just sometimes, ugly humanoids have feelings too. Anyway, these undead dragons are attacking Golem as soon as you find them, and Golem asks for your help. If you manage to kill them before Golem dies, he'll be grateful as a fistful of nearly-drowned kittens and drop you the 'Golem' item, which you can use to teach your Summoners how to utilize Golem's mighty protective prowess. If you fail, however, you'll just have to try again; he'll still randomly appear as the ??? creature and versus the two dragons.

Golem's biggest enemies are Bone Dragon's Bone (which reduces his 2500 HP to a single digit, and it CAN work), Zombie Dragon's Vampire which it may use every third turn, and your random or MT attacks. Lay off the !Gaia; you don't want a Cave-in raining down. Don't ever bring a Berserker in this fight. Focus attacks on the dragons. It might even be a good idea to protect Golem; the Protect and Blink spells or a Dragon Kiss potion (Mix a Dragon Fang with a Maiden's Kiss) protect respectively against physical attacks sent his way and Bone (Dragon Kiss gives Golem a Heavy nature, so Bone will never connect). Flash is a great Blue spell to use; it may blind all three, causing the Dragon's attacks to miss often.

Requiem is THE best attack to use in this battle as it will deal massive damage to both dragons but won't hit Golem. As long as you've got the ability to use Songs, Romeo's Balled sets Stop on both dragons as well. The Bone Dragon is vulnerable to Petrify, so you might want to take advantage of that fact. These dragons are tougher than usual, having more HP and defenses; they shouldn't be able to kill Golem before you can save him, though. You can Confuse all three of them with Alluring Air; but since confused opponents will start attacking each other, all you'll accomplish is that the Dragons will randomly attack each other in addition to attacking Golem randomly. Note that unlike most special battles, you can both Catch and Control these two Dragons to remove them as a threat from the battlefield.

If Golem falls, the Dragons will take a turn to turn around and will start attacking you; the Zombie Dragon will now start to use Poison Breath, and the Bone Dragon will use Bone much more often. If you kill them now, no worries; you can meet the Golem + two undead Dragon formation again, as if nothing even happened and you never failed in the first place. If at first you don't succeed, it never happened!

Stop the Dragons, Protect or possibly heal the Golem, and you should have little trouble. Kill the Zombie Dragon ASAP, as Vampire can be extremely lethal to Golem.

So what does the one-armed bandit do? His attack is called Earthen Wall and it protects you from every physical attack sent your way. Golem's hand of mud and clay shoots forth from the earth to absorb physical attacks, but only stops those coming from the enemy. However, Golem can only take so much punishment before the effects of Earthen Wall wear off again; the amount of HP damage Golem can take before disintegrating equals (the summoner's level + 20) * 50. You can put up Golem's Earthen Wall when it has been taken down, but you can't 'refresh' the thing; if Earthen Wall is still in effect, summoning Golem will do nothing.

Continue!

Enter the next cave, and go left to find two chests containing the Wind Slash Katana and the Hypno Crown. The Wind Slash has a 12 % chance of performing a Gale Cut attack instead of a normal physical strike and boosts Wind-elemental attacks (!Blue, !Gaia and the Wind Slash's own Gale Cut attack contain this element). The Hypno Crown is another heavy piece of equipment (how slow do we want our Beastmasters to be?) which about doubles the chances of the !Control ability to work. Every Job can equip it. Note that both items are one-of-a- kind in this game.

Trace back your steps and take the other path. It takes you past a chest with a Phoenix Down and an entry to a Save Point. Use it and take the other exit. Here's one final slope (the Golem, Bone Dragon, Zombie Dragon formation appears here as well, so if you haven't found Golem now's the time) to take you to the purpose of your visit to Drakenvale; the dragon grass. If you're looking for some kind of preparation and you're traveling with a Beastmaster, try catching a Bone Dragon; it's Bone attack will serve us well in the upcoming battle.

You've got to be kidding me.
