<a id="s4-31-2"></a>

### 4.31.2. En route to Quelb

Opponents: Aquathorn (#94), Weresnake (#95), Kornago (#96), Cursed Being (#97)

Blue spells: Pond's Chorus

Marshlands 58 % Cursed Being, Kornago x 2 35 % Weresnake x 2 6 % Cursed Being x 2, Weresnake, Kornago

Southern Forests: 42 % Cursed Being x 2, Weresnake, Kornago 35 % Kornago x 3 23 % Cursed Being, Kornago x 2

Eastern Marshlands: 35 % Cursed Being, Aquathorn 35 % Kornago x 3 30 % Weresnake x 2

Western Marshlands: 35 % Aquathorn 35 % Kornago, Werensnake, Aquathorn 30 % Aquathorn x 2

I should probaly give a description here...

Aquathorns are conscious, swamp-dwelling plants that attack anything that comes close for sustenance. They can attack physically and have a 33% shot at using Slimer, which ensnares a character and slowly dissolves its body. That's just a creepy way of saying it sets Slow and Sap! When you Catch one, you get to see it cast a Death spell upon Release. Where does this pure hatred of life channeled into the purest example of dark arcane arts come from? Mysteries of an alien world... They absorb Water-elemental attacks and have a weakness to the Lightning element, befitting of their aquatic nature.

Weresnakes are nothing special, except for the fact they're inherently Poisoned. You could cure it for them with an Antidote or somesuch, but they'll still try to kill you.

Kornago toads are just super-delicious, but also quite murderous. They run away when they have less than 300 HP, which normally wouldn't be a problem since you could just let them; later on though, you'll want to Catch at least one of them. They're not Heavy and vulnerable to Paralyze, so Death Claw works like a charm when trying to obtain one; Stop and Sleep can also disable them. They will randomly use Pond's Chorus every turn as a stepping stone to their combined ambition to turn the world into a world of warty hides, long tongues and edible legs.

It is not stated how or why Cursed Beings are cursed, and if this curse has anything to do with them walking on their hands. Maybe they're just trying to turn that frown upside-down? They're unassuming physical footsoldiers, but don't let a character fall in battle when they're around; they'll use Danse Macabre to raise him or her as a Zombie. A freaking ZOMBIE, man.

Lightning-elemental attacks clean house versus the Aquathorns and Cursed Beings, !Gaia's Bottomless Swamp still kicks major ass in the marshlands and any Blue or Time caster can help in subduing a Kornago enemy for the greater good.
