<a id="s4-32-4"></a>

### 4.32.4. The fight with Atomos

**Level:** 41, HP: 19997, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 14, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 20% · **Steal:** Flail (rare), Ether (common) · **Win:** Dark Matter (always) · **Status:** Haste · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Sleep · **Attacks:** Gravity, Graviga, Slowga, Old, Comet

Atomos

Atomos is a bastard, but not too tough of a fight when you see past the fact he can kill two characters in a single round regardless of your defenses. But he won't do it very often. Honest.

Whenever all four characters are alive, he'll cast Comet once or twice. Whenever a character is down (petrified works too, though there's no reason to cast it on yourself and Atomos certainly won't do it for you), he'll pull them in his direction. When directly in front of Atomos, he'll use an attack called Wormhole to remove them from the battlefield. In the meantime, he'll use some minor Time magic spells but none of them are too threatening. Old is annoying, quickly heal with Esuna; Slowga is the worst, set Haste to override the status if possible.

There are three things you can do. First off, Atomos is vulnerable to Sleep, so cast the Sleep spell, cast Time Slip or utilize Sleep Spellblade effects to take advantage of the fact. Since the magical attacks miss on occasion, the Spellblade strategy is best. In addition, pounding the ever-living crap out of Atomos works as well: you should be able to kill him off before he uses Wormhole once. If you don't think you're going to make it, revive the fallen character and hope Atomos kills another party member this time. Since Atomos is Hasted the entire battle, he moves quickly. Haste is theoretically removable, but Atomos is immune to Slow (which would remove Haste) and you can't cast Dispel yet.

A somewhat nice strategy that works is using Dark Spark to lower Atomos' level to 20, then use Level 5 Death to kill the thing in a single hit. Dark Spark won't hit often, though.

Bio spells are very powerful, as is Gaia's Wrath. Dual Twin Lances and a Two- Handed Berserker deals significant damage (might wanna give him a Poison Axe rather than a Gaia Hammer; the former doesn't have the annoying tendency to deal out that weak Earthquake attack). A Ninja with two Twin Lances backed up with Barehanded is a menace in this fight, you'll love it. The Mix outcome Succubus Kiss also deals a LOT of damage (in the neighborhood of 3000), so that's nice. Releasing a Yellow Dragon I told you about deals 4999 damage, which is enough to warrant the use of a Beastmaster. Barehanded helps the dominator out when he's made his first impact.

Keep Atomos snoozing, deal your damage and you'll easily live through this fight. For a bit of trivia, Atomos made a re-appearance as a summon monster later in Final Fantasy IX and was even given an appearance in a CG video (it's massive and destroys windows).

While the mission objective has been reached, it's the end of the road for Xezat of Ice. And so, another Warrior of Dawn falls...
