<a id="s4-32-3"></a>

### 4.32.3. Xezat of Ice; the barrier tower

Opponents: Neon (#106), Magnetite (#107), Reflect Knight (#108), Traveler (#109), Level Tricker (#110), Gravitator (#111), Ziggurat Gigas (#112), Red Dragon (#133), Yellow Dragon (#134), Atomos (#276)

Container contents: 9000 Gil, 18000 Gil, Blood Sword, Gold Hairpin

Miscellaneous items: Reflect Ring (rare drop from Reflect Knight), Partisan (rare steal from Zigguart Gigas), Coral Ring (rare drop from Yellow Dragon), Flame Ring (rare steal from Red Dragon), Dark Matter (guaranteed Atomos drop)

Blue spells: Flash, Time Slip, Level 2 Old, Level 3 Flare, Level 4 Graviga, Level 5 Death, Off-Guard

Ground floor, 2nd Floor: 35 % Neon 35 % Traveler, Neon x 2 23 % Reflect Knight 6 % Traveler, Reflect Knight, Magnetite

**Note:** since the Barrier Tower is such a vertical challenge, its contents are

best listed in a floor-by-floor fashion. I will give encounters and monster descriptions as they become relevant.

I've always found this area one of the more challenging locations the games offers; it's not so much that the monsters are difficult, it's just that there's no all-round way of dealing strong damage to all opponents. Titan is

powerful but doesn't hit Travelers, Ziggurat Gigas' and Magnetites. Twin Lances are powerful ST damage dealers but sometimes miss. Reflect Knights take little damage from physical attacks and reflect magical ones. Bleh. Hey, at least there's a lot to find and learn here.

The plan here is simple. The barrier tower itself, obviously, is also protected by a barrier. Not a magical one though; an electric barrier. Xezat attacks the generator to lift the electric barrier and expose the antenna; when that happens, you destroy it. In the meantime, you can keep in contact through the Whisperweed. Now, Xezat takes off; you can return to the submarine at any given time if you so please (you get back to the flagship where you can find the Wind Drake, but there's really no reason for you to do so).

Onto the monsters!

Neons are silly. They respond to physical attacks with the Flash spell, so don't. They don't have an elemental weakness, but Titan has little problems with them and they don't have a lot of HP regardless. They're NOT weak to Ice- or Wind-elemental elemental attacks, mind, unlike the Crew Dust you faced in the Fire-Powered Ship.

Magnetite are agile little bastards that use the Magnet attack to pull any character into the Front Row. They're not too dangerous but just damn difficult to dispatch. They nullify Earth-elemental attacks so Titan's a no-go. They're weak to Lightning-elemental attacks; Ramuh's boosted Judgment Bolt works like a charm, as do Lightning Scrolls.

Reflect Knights are annoying; they're quite sturdy on the Defense and have an inherent Reflect ability. Gaia's Wrath is the key to their defeat. Other magical attacks that ignore Reflect (Succubus Kiss, Judgment Bolt, Aqua Breath) also work. Note that Comet and Drain ignore the Reflect status as well. They rarely drop Reflect Rings, which are grand to pick up. I suggest you get four of 'em if you can be bothered; in many challenges, getting four Reflect Rings is a must.

Travelers are silly witches that float over Gaia's Wrath like it's nothing. They randomly use Time Slip, an ST attack which sets Old and Sleep on a target. Your Blue Mages can learn this attack; you could wait for a lucky hit from Traveler's random AI script or simply Control one. They rarely drop Dream Harps: AWESOME (kidding).

The best thing about boosting Earth-elemental attacks? It's done by robes! So you can boost Gaia's Wrath AND Ramuh's Judgment Bolt. You should do just that. Whenever Magnetites appear, summon Ramuh to kill them off, it's really the best thing to do about them. Gaia's Wrath to deal with Reflect Knights, Neon thingies and Level Trickers you'll see later. All the rest you'll have to do with physicals. It's not that hard, just takes a little longer than you're used to.

The second floor houses a Save Point. Continue up. There are two chests here; one in your path and one you'll have to go around for. The latter contains a Blood Sword but is protected by either a single Red Dragon or two Yellow Dragons, both of which are powerful enough to give specific strategies for.

I'd personally go for the Red Dragon in order to learn Level 3 Flare and get a guaranteed Flame Ring. Make sure one of your characters' levels is divisible by 3, otherwise trying to learn Level 3 Flare will be a wasted effort. You can use Dark Spark and/or !Mix potions that raise level to manipulate a target's level into becoming divisible by 3. Also note that you can run from these battles; you won't get the item from the chest, but you CAN steal items, run and fight the enemy again. This means unlimited Flame Rings if you so desire! You'll be forced to shoot for a Chicken Knife, but the thing's more powerful anyway :/ Before you open the chest, make sure you're fully healed as Red Dragon can open with an Atomic Ray attack before you even get to move; it can deal up to 650 damage to all characters, and double that to a Bone Mail enthusiast.

**Level:** 30, HP: 7500, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 12, Magic Defense: 8 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 5% · **Steal:** Flame Ring (rare), Hi-Potion (common) · **Win:** Elixir (rare) · **Absorbs:** Fire · **Weakness:** Ice, Earth, Water · **Creature:** Dragon, Undead, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Poison, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop, · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Atomic Ray

Red Dragon Regen

Red Dragon: Not only is the Red Dragon a formidable foe, you'll also want to learn Level 3 Flare from it and probably want to obtain a Flame Ring, meaning you'll have to get in there with !Mix, !Control and Learning for Level 3 Flare and !Time and !Steal for the Flame Ring. The Red Dragon can use Atomic Ray to do anywhere between 400 and 600 damage (around 1200 to a Bone Mail character) to all targets. It's got a lot of HP and its physicals are brutal. It's Undead, so the Requiem is very powerful, and it's weak to Ice-, Water- AND Earth-elemental attacks so Blizzara Spellblade effects, Gaia's Wrath and the Gaia Hammer all deliver a lot of damage. You can Stop them as well. Control the Red Dragon. Steal and cast Return until you've got the Flame Ring you want. Now, we'll want to learn Level 3 Flare. It will need to bounce back onto a Learning character from a Reflect barrier, which we can only set at this stage of the game by the Mix outcome Dragon Defense (Phoenix Down + Dragon Fang), or !Release a Neon and have it use Reflect on a character with a Reflect Ring, thus setting Reflect on the Red Dragon. When Reflect is set on the Red Dragon, have it cast Level 3 Flare and revive the fallen. You may want to use !Jump or !Hide to have some character(s) survive if all characters could be hit by the attack; dealing over 2200 damage, it WILL kill.

**Level:** 38, HP: 8500, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 5 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Thunder Rod (rare), Ether (common) · **Win:** Coral Ring (rare) · **Absorbs:** Lightning · **Creature:** Dragon · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Lightning

Yellow Dragon x2

Yellow Dragons: They're easier for three reasons; they're not Undead, so the Death Sickle can dispatch them. They're not Heavy, so Missile, Gravity and Death Claw all work. Also, you don't really want anything from them but death, so you don't need to fiddle around. You'll definitely want to bring Control into the battle. Romeo's Ballad can Stop both, which is very helpful. When Controlled, they can use Hurricane on one and other (which works). You'll want to work fast with Yellow Dragons; their successive Lightning attacks are very, very nasty. They'll use Lightning when Released too, so you'll want to Catch one or both for the boss at the end of the tower. You're lucky if you can take a Coral Ring from this fight as a rare drop, but don't count on it.

The Blood Sword is a Knightsword that drains HP, but it has an abysmal Hit Rate (25 %). Knightswords can only be equipped by Knights, if you must know. In addition, the damage formula used by the Blood Sword is not the normal Sword damage formula which depends on your Strength and the target's Defense, but it's the same one used by a normal Drain spell; the damage done by the Blood Sword depends on the wielder's Magic Power and the target's Magic Defense. In addition, it ignores Row! You could set a Mage's Magic Power to the Knight for increased damage, but then you'd have no way of making it hit often. You can combine it with !Aim to make in unblockable, which allows your Knight to restore around 500 HP every attack. !Rapid Fire also makes the blade get a perfect hit rate and unlike normal weapons the damage done isn't halved per strike! I'm not counting on you having the ability yet. Since the Blood Sword's listed Battle Power is quite impressive, it makes for a great Goblin Punch sword; the Blood Sword's boost to Magic Power will come in handy for those with a Blue spelllist. Mainly, the Blood Sword is just a novelty weapon.

The Flame Ring makes the wearer absorb Fire-elemental attacks, nullify Ice- elemental ones and take double damage from Water-elemental attacks. They grant superior Magic Defense than everything you have at this point and even superior Defense to the sissy Power Armlets your Mages were stuck with when it came to Defense. Flame Ring versus Elven Mantle is a tough one; I'd still go with Elven Mantle since I'm a sucker for physical evasion (especially on mages) but the Flame Ring certainly has its merits. Fira, for instance, becomes a superior form of healing to Cura when everybody is draped in Flame Rings; it's more powerful and a Bone Mail wearer is also healed (the Flame Ring's absorption overrides the weakness coming from the Bone Mail). In addition, Rangers with Flame Bows can now function as healers for themselves...

3rd Floor: 35 % Neon x 3 35 % Magnetite x 2, Reflect Knight x 2 23 % Traveler, Gravitator 6 % Level Tricker x 3

4th Floor: 35 % Traveler, Neon x 2 35 % Reflect Knight 23 % Traveler, Reflect Knight, Magnetite 6 % Level Tricker x 2, Traveler

5th Floor: 35 % Magnetite x 2, Reflect Knight x 2 35 % Traveler, Gravitator 23 % Level Tricker x 3 6 % Gravitator, Reflect Knight, Magnetite

6th Floor: 35 % Reflect Knight 35 % Traveler, Reflect Knight, Magnetite 23 % Level Tricker x 2, Traveler 6 % Gravitator, Reflect Knight, Level Tricker

Level Trickers will attack physically and use Level 4 Graviga every turn. If you missed it earlier, pick it up here. Also, Level 5 Death and Level 2 Old are in its Control menu, so if you've got the levels to learn either, please do. You'll need to make the attack bounce off Dragon Defense (Dragon Fang + Phoenix Down, sets Regen, Protect, Shell and Reflect), but then you're in business. You can also Release a Neon; if it casts Reflect on a character with a Reflect Ring, the Reflect spell will bounce off to a random enemy.

Another example of Exdeath's monster horde, Gravitators are wizards which employ, you know, gravity-based attacks. Whoever came up with the idea that gravity equals percentage-based damage should be hit. Anyway, you'll want to kill them before their Gravity and Graviga spells are becoming too much of a bother. Not interesting. Rarely drops Gaia Gear.

Up you go! The monster formation packs change all the time, but nothing you'll really notice. You'll go past a chest containing 18000 Gil on the 6th floor, you can't miss it. A brief cutscene will disrupt your steady climbing on the 7th.

7th Floor: 35 % Traveler, Gravitator 35 % Level Tricker x 3 23 % Gravitator, Reflect Knight, Magnetite 6 % Ziggurat Gigas

8th Floor: 35 % Traveler, Reflect Knight, Magnetite 35 % Level Tricker, Traveler 23 % Gravitator, Reflect Knight, Level Tricker 6 % Ziggurat Gigas, Magnetite x 2

9th Floor: 35 % Level Tricker x 3 35 % Gravitator, Reflect Knight, Magnetite 23 % Ziggurat Gigas 6 % Ziggurat Gigas x 2, Magnetite

Ziggurat Gigas are the most formidable opponents the Barrier Tower has to offer. They may use Hurricane whenever they feel like it, use Off-Guard to lower your defenses and their physicals are quite brutal. You can rarely steal a Partisan from these guys. They have no common steal, so it's a doable option; you can disable them with Confuse, Stop, Sleep, Darkness, everything except for Toad and Mini. If you never learned Off-Guard from Page 256 in the Library of the Ancients, you can do so here. The Partisan is a good bit stronger than the Javelin and the most powerful one-handed weapon you have at the moment, should you want to give your Freelancers some love.

On the ninth floor, take the left door before going through the right one. Here, another chest is guarded by either a Red Dragon or two Yellow Dragons. Again, make sure you can survive a Red Dragon's initial Atomic Ray (around 650 Fire- elemental damage) before opening the chest, or it's an instant Game Over. If you got everything you wanted from the Red Dragon earlier (four Flame Rings and Level 3 Flare), try going for two Yellow Dragons here. Catch one or both, and maybe you'll get to take a Coral Ring home.

Coral Rings are similar to Flame Rings, only their elemental properties differ. Coral Rings allow you to absorb Water-elemental attacks, nullify Fire-elemental ones and make the wearer weak to Lightning-elemental attacks. While overall less useful than the Flame Rings, there will be a fight in the future for which four Coral Rings nothing short of a necessity.

The contents on the chest consist out of Gold Hairpin. This helmet can only be worn by Mages. It adds no Defense and only 2 Magic Defense, but it has a rad special property: the MP cost of spells cast by a character with the Gold Hairpin equipped is cut by 50 %. Especially Summoners can take advantage of this treat as Titan is rather heavy on the MP.

10th Floor: 35 % Level Tricker x 2, Traveler 35 % Gravitator, Reflect Knight, Level Tricker 23 % Ziggurat Gigas, Magnetite x 2 6 % Neon

Top Floor: 35 % Gravitator, Reflect Knight, Magnetite 35 % Ziggurat Gigas 23 % Ziggurat Gigas x 2, Magnetite 6 % Neon x 3

There's a Save Point on the 10th Floor, use it to Save. When you arrive at the top floor, Xezat will contact you again. Things darken a little then.

"You think it'll be that easy? Think again! Now pay...with your blood!"
