<a id="s4-32-1"></a>

### 4.32.1. Ghido the Sage and Xezat Matias Surgate

Opponents: Cure Beast (#115), Land Turtle (#116)

Container contents: 5000 Gil

Time spells: Float

Songs: Swift Song Even when rushing upstairs to get the Dragon Grass to the Wind Drake you'll hear the rustle of the NPC's; Krile's not feeling too well. Also, we hear that King Xezat Surage has opened an attack on one of the four Barrier Towers that upholds the barrier protecting Castle Exdeath; we'll check later. Now's the time to heal the Wind Drake and head Krile's call; visit Ghido the Sage.

**As far as the dragon grass feeding procedure goes:** everybody's stupid in the

head but in the end it's all right so no biggie. Geez-oh-pete!

Now that you have a wind drake to ride, you can fly all over the world. The features you can actually access are limited though. If you want to take a look at what this dark world has to offer, here's a map:

**http: www.cavesofnarshe.com/ff5/map.php?world=second**

Take the Wind Drake to the cave to the north-east of Drakenvale. You can scout around the Overworld Map (no new monsters) but as soon as you enter the cave itself, Exdeath decides it hasn't been quite enough of a bastard and submerges the entire island. Oh well. We could travel back to Castle Bal, but Krile's still telling us Ghido is calling. Disregard that, let's go find Xezat and see if we can be of any help there.

To the west of what once was Ghido's Cave lies Surgate Castle.

Around Surgate Castle, several new enemies appear. Grasslands: 35 % Land Turtle 35 % Cure Beast, Land Turtle x 2 30 % Cure Beast x 4

Cure Beasts are crazy. They look after everything that's not them; every even turn, they'll cast Cura on every target but themselves. They're not too powerful when it comes to restorative magic though, so no worries. They rarely drop Elixirs, which is something to look forward to. They're altruists all around, these bunnies.

Land Turtles are your source of Turtle Shells in this world, which is nice to know if you're employing the Mix outcome of the Succubus Kiss. They're weak to Ice-elemental attacks like all lizards, and will always drop the lusted-after Turtle Shells. They merely attack physically, so no worries there.

The enemies really aren't that interesting. Enter Surgate Castle. Nor the gates nor the guards are being very responsive but by pressing the button (isn't it the purpose of a castle to keep people OUT?) the gates open. Inside, there's magical fun and adventure! Everything starts in the Throne Room. Seems like King Xezat is a bachelor.

The stairs in the top-left corner take you outside, on the walls. There's only one way to go, past some scholars. They've got an ancient book called the Sealed Tome, but half of it is missing. In the Library of the Ancients, there was a nameless book of which only half was present; maybe there's a connection? Alas, it doesn't matter. Downstairs is a cranky librarian (comes with the job, I suppose). There are three books and many more shelves. The books:

Weird Ronka Register of Monsters Forbidden Book

A-C D-F G-H I-K L-N O-Q R-S T-V W-X Y-Z *nothing*

When not carrying around a book, Bartz will look for an ass magazine in the left part of the A-C shelf. Oh well, nobody's blaming you; one of your girls dresses like a man and the other wouldn't recognize an ass if she sat on one. Anyway, put the three books where they belong and the librarian will open up a new passage. If you screw up, you can leave the room and re-enter to see them scattered around again.

In this room, a book gives you the tip of combining !Lance with a mage. I never found this very useful as MP isn't that much of a problem and I'd rather go with more diversity (!Mix can drain MP just fine, thank you), but it never was my place to disagree with in-game information. Also, books are stupid and only sissies read them. Continue to a room with a lot of stuff. One of the stuff is a chest containing 5000 Gil. Leave through the door and cross the courtyard to find another door leading to another room of useless junk and a single chest, this one containing the Float spell, ever-so-useful for avoiding Earth-elemental attacks. Trace your steps back to the Throne Room.

The bottom-left stairway takes you to Xezat's room, where a book containing the Swift Song lies. An odd location to say the least; if there is one place where you'd rather not be too swift, it's the bedroom... You'll learn it upon inspection. The Swift Song slowly increases your Agility while your Bard is singing; he or she will stop singing when struck by a physical attack. Note that Agility is used when determining damage from !Throw (not the Scrolls), the Diamond Bell and Tinklebell and the Chicken Knife, so those will get a damage boost.

The final stairway takes you down to the shops and Inn of Castle Surgate.

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Great Sword         3400 Gil
  - Heavy Lance         6400 Gil
  - Osafune             5800 Gil
  - Poison Axe          5600 Gil
  - You haven't got any Heavy Lances yet, but the Javelin you might have stolen
  - from the Sand Bears in the Desert of Streaming Sands is a tad stronger and
  - equally non-elemental. The Poison Axe is a non-elemental Axe stronger than the
  - Death Sickle but weaker than the Gaia Hammer; it has a 67% chance of finishing
  - a physical attack with the Poison spell; not what a Berserker is generally
  - about, status ailments. The Osafune's simply the strongest Katana to date, it's
  - not as funky as the Wind Slash, though. Buy whatever you think you need; none
  - of these weapons are all too impressive or useless.

The Armor Shop sells no new items, and the Magic Shop sells no new spells.

When you're done, sleep at the Inn and take the Wind Drake to Xezat's fleet. Take a look at the World Map. See the south-eastern continent? This is the one where Castle Exdeath is found. To the east of this continent, Xezat has began his assault, as the continent is said to be relatively unprotected from that side. Fly there. There are fourteen ships, but only one of them is large enough for the Wind Drake to land on.
