<a id="s4-32-2"></a>

### 4.32.2. Surgate Fleet; the third fight with Gilgamesh

Opponents: Gobbledygook (#105), Gilgamesh (#274), Enkidu (#275)

Miscellaneous items: Genji Gloves (common Gilgamesh steal)

Blue spells: Goblin Punch, Missile, Death Claw, Aera, Vampire

The reunion between Xezat and Galuf is warm, but the situation is grim. Even though Xezat's attack is a bold one, Exdeath's situation is stable and strong and all the goodwill and rest in the world isn't enough to help out in this battle. Xezat offers the quarters of his flagship, and you should definitely take him up on his offer. Once you rest (you could still take the Wind Drake and travel around this world), you'll be rudely awakened by an attacking force. Seems the army of Exdeath still has enough steam left after the fights versus both Bal and Quelb.

Talk to Xezat to get the party started.

There's a total of three Gobbledygook monsters running around Xezat's flagship and one waiting for you at the nose of the ship. Fighting them isn't all that helpful, but I suppose it's nice versus Xezat's soldiers or something. They'll attack physically and may randomly use Goblin Punch; they're vulnerable to all status ailments, including such gems as Mini and Toad. When you've defeated the Gobbledygook standing still, you'll get a cutscene where Xezat defeats one of his own but gets slapped around by the monster called Enkidu. Back to you, Freddy. The path is open for you to face Gilgamesh for a third time. Make sure you're able to steal, as a unique item is about to be presented to you.

**Level:** 31, HP: 8888, MP: 888 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Genji Gloves (common) · **Win:** Golden Shield (always) · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack, Death Claw, Missile

Gilgamesh

**Level:** 29, HP: 4000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 20% · **Steal:** Green Beret (common) · **Nullifies:** Earth · **Status:** Float · **Creature:** Humanoid · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack, Aera, Missile, Wind Slash, Web, Dischord,

Enkidu Vampire, White Wind

"Ahhh...blue, blue skies and the rolling sea! It's days like this that get you high on life! But you, sirs, are harshing my buzz!"

This is a fairly straight-forward battle. Gilgamesh does his thing; all of his attacks randomly pop up. When he hits 6000 HP, his next action will consist of summoning Enkidu, his legendary companion who will promptly restore him with White Wind. At that point, the battle becomes a tad more serious as there's now two targets attacking and casting spells, but there shouldn't be that much trouble. Enkidu doesn't have that much on an AI script either; all of his attacks are random as well. Note that he's Floating and thus nullifies Gaia Hammer's Earthquake attacks and Titan's Gaia's Wrath; in a shocking turn of events, Enkidu CAN evade Aerial attacks even though he's Floating; with 20% Evasion rate, they'll still land most of the time, though.

"I see you're leisurely as ever, faithful sidekick!"

"The old man gave me some trouble."

"Ho? Let's return the trouble...and make it double! Come on!"

Golem's Earthen Wall helps out nicely in this battle. Make sure to Steal one of the things Gilgamesh is famous for within the game; the first piece of Genji Equipment. The Genji Gloves are unique insofar you won't get a second pair of them; ev4r. The Genji Gloves grant superior Defense and protect against the Toad and Paralyze status ailments. Still not superior to the Elven Mantle in my book, but you never did find more than three at this point so there's still some poor heavily armored sap left with a Gauntlet or something silly like that.

Oh yeah, Gilgamesh. Pound on him. You can set Slow on both Gilgamesh and Enkidu to lessen their amount of attacks. You can actually successfully Control Enkidu! This way, he can use a physical attack and Hurricane, which doesn't work on Gilgamesh but does work on Enkidu himself. You can have Enkidu Hurricane himself and add a second attack to get rid of the beast-man.

Boosted Bio spells and Titan's Gaia's Wrath (also boosted) are pretty much your most potent magical attacks. If you have a Ninja with two Twin Lances, he'll be unrivaled in damage output. Heavy Armor characters get the short end of the stick here; they'll need to be Berserkers with the Two-Handed ability to deal enough damage (though it'll surpass all other attacks if it gets the maximum power in), but every time Earthquake appears it'll be a fairly weak attack which won't even hit Enkidu. Without Twin Lances, your Clothes characters won't be that awesome; you'll want to resort to the Hayate Bow, Barehanded or !Throw.

If you kill Enkidu before Gilgamesh, the latter will give a little speech before ending the battle.

"Enkidu! Faithful sidekick! I trust you can take care of the rest! Faithful sidekick? ...Enkidu? Hey! Sidekicks are NOT to ditch the hero!"

You can use a combination of Dark Spark (once) and Level 5 Death to kill Gilgamesh before Enkidu manages to arrive in the first place, which the game never anticipated; Gilgamesh' sprite will be gone, but his voice will appear and give the above "Enkidu! Faithful sidekick!" speech to and about nobody in particular. Fun stuff, but you lose out on the Enkidu Bestiary entry if that's something you care about. Releasing an Aquathorn, Mixing a Death Potion, using the Killer Bow and having it trigger the instant-kill or having a Death Sickle pull off its random Death spell also work here. Finally, the Berserk status prevents Gilgamesh from summoning Enkidu at all; !Mix a Holy Water with a Turtle Shell to create a Bacchus' Cider, and throw the fizzy drink at the painted face of Gilgamesh to inflict the status. It also works on Enkidu if you start brewing the cocktail after Enkidu appears.

At the end of the fight it almost looks like Gilgamesh gains the upper hand, but the Wind Drake and Xezat combine efforts to help you out of your pickle. It's time for a counter-attack on one of the barrier towers; now that we know Exdeath is aware of our location, there's no day like Today. You can rest if you want to. When you're done, the left room in the flagship's interior is where Xezat is waiting for you.
