<a id="s4-33-1"></a>

### 4.33.1. The town of Moore

Opponents: Cure Beast (#115), Land Turtle (#116), Dechirer (#117)

Container contents: Main Gauche

Features: Piano

You've got the liberty of sea-travel again, and rest assured the submarine grants access to a few places hitherto out of your reach. If you take the submarine to the surface and walk over the Exdeath's Castle, you'll find Xezat's troops there. The door is locked and unbreakable, so no progress past this point yet. Maybe Sage Ghido knows something?

Note that the Wind Drake touched land close to the now-exploded Barrier Tower, with the fleet gone and all. If you ever want to visit some old locations, you can use the Wind Drake; none of the locations I'm going to discuss now are accessible with the Wind Drake.

There's a few locations you can visit. You could travel to Surgate Castle and hear the rage and sadness of its inhabitants, but it doesn't help you. You could take the Wind Drake who waits for you on shore to Quelb and inform Kelger, but all you bring is sadness.

Kelger: I see... Xezat has fallen...

No, we set out to find Ghido a while ago, and now is the time to approach him. Krile's still urging us to go, so he must somehow still be alive; perhaps the cave took an air bubble with it while it sank, who knows. Maybe it's a sea turtle? However, there's a few things to be done before finding Ghido. We should go to Moore, western-most white dot on the World Map. If you travel east, you may pass a big dark crack in the sea floor; you cannot interact with it now, but 'tis of significant importance.

Around Moore, there are forests filled with new random encounters!

Forests: 35 % Dechirer x5 35 % Cure Beast, Land Turtle x2 30 % Cure Beast x4

Grasslands: 70 % Dechirer x5 23 % Cure Beast x4 6 % Land Turtle x3

The Cure Beasts and Land Turtles were already swarming the grasslands surrounding Surgate Castle, so those aren't new. Dechirer (French for 'to tear up') absorb Lightning and fall quickly to Level 5 Death. When you Catch them, they produce a Level 3 Flare spell, but you can't learn Blue spells from Released monsters.

The town itself is so good, so blessed, so majestic that the word 'Mooregasm' is not unheard of in certain circles.

There's little to do here; it's just a town covering its awesome new equipment and spell selection. There's a Main Gauche hidden in one of the barrels left of the Pub; just for evasive purposes, but still a decent blade. Know, by the way, that two Main Gauches do not stack as far as physical evasion is concerned. Speaking of Pubs, there's a Piano here! Play it! What you hear now is probably the most famous piece of music played in the game, it being the Alla Turca by Mozart.

"A piano virtuoso indeed!!! ...After a bit more practice, anyway."

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Air Knife           3400 Gil
  - Elven Bow           6400 Gil
  - The Elven Bow, if you have one or more Hayate Bows, is incredibly useless in
  - every sense of the word. What IS of note, though, is that the Elven Bow has a
  - 15% chance of inflicting a Critical Hit, hitherto unheard of with Bows. This
  - does not make it better than the Hayate Bow, but it is neat. The Air Knife, is
  - awesome. Why? Because it boosts the thus far nigh-unboostable Wind-elemental
  - attacks! This is especially good news since we're not far from obtaining
  - Aeroga, the strongest Blue Wind-elemental attack. Buy them for your Mages and
  - Clothes characters, they'll like them. I'm not sure what makes an Air Knife an
  - Air Knife, though. Maybe the blade is made out of air, but I guess that would
  - just make it a handle.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Diamond Shield      6000 Gil
  - Diamond Helm        7000 Gil
  - Tiger Mask          5000 Gil
  - Sage's Miter        3000 Gil
  - Diamond Armor       8000 Gil
  - Diamond Plate       6000 Gil
  - Luminous Robe       4000 Gil
  - Diamond Armlet      4000 Gil
  - Not much to say here, really. There's upgrades for everybody. You decide if
  - you want to keep the Lamia's Tiaras or take up on the Sage's Miter. The latter
  - has more Defense, the former more Magic Defense, gives a slightly greater Magic
  - Power boost and protects against Confuse. I'd say go with the Tiara. Diamond
  - Armlets should be useless amidst all the Genji Gloves, Elven Mantles and Flame
  - Rings.

- **Magic Shop (White):**
  - Curaga              6000 Gil
  - Reflect             6000 Gil
  - Berserk             6000 Gil
  - Blink               3000 Gil
  - Shell               3000 Gil
  - Esuna               3000 Gil
  - This is so sweet. I know you're excited. Buy them all, and use them with
  - gusto. Curaga is, when MT'd, just a stronger Cura. ST, it will simply restore a
  - character's HP back to full. When Curaga is cast on an Undead target, it will
  - see its HP reduced to a single digit. Reflect causes a bunch of spells to
  - bounce from the affected target to the other party. Both offensive and
  - beneficial spells, that is. Most of the spells you can cast are vulnerable to
  - Reflect; chapter 8.1.20 lists them in detail. Berserk just sets Berserk. If Gil
  - is an issue, Curaga and Berserk are more important than Reflect, but see what
  - you need; you can already set both Berserk and Reflect with !Mix.

- **Magic Shop (Black):**
  - Firaga              6000 Gil
  - Blizzaga            6000 Gil
  - Thundaga            6000 Gil
  - Drain               3000 Gil
  - Break               3000 Gil
  - Bio                 3000 Gil
  - The new 3rd tier spells all transfer to Spellblade as well. As Black Magic
  - these're just very powerful. You can ditch the Poison Rod for the rest of the
  - game and switch back to the weaker ones which boost the primary elements. On
  - Spellblade effects, the elemental spells are a bit different from the others;
  - when the target is vulnerable to the element and not Heavy, the Spellblade
  - effect will simply kill the target in a single hit, disregarding damage output.
  - If you're short on Gil at this point, consider getting only one of the level 5
  - spells here; as far as weaknesses in the upcoming parts goes, there really
  - isn't much difference.

- **Magic Shop (Time):**
  - Graviga             6000 Gil
  - Hastega             6000 Gil
  - Old                 6000 Gil
  - Comet               3000 Gil
  - Slowga              3000 Gil
  - Return              3000 Gil
  - Especially Hastega is nice, as it sets Haste to all character. Graviga
  - reduces the HP of a non-Heavy target by 87.5 %. Old sets Old! Get the others
  - anyway if you have Gil to spare, which is unlikely at this point.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Hi-Potion            360 Gil
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil

Ether 1500 Gil Holy Water 150 Gil Cottage 600 Gil Goliath Tonic 110 Gil Power Drink 110 Gil Speed Shake 110 Gil Iron Draft 110 Gil Hero Cocktail 110 Gil You may want to Mix some Death Potions in the future, so make sure you're not short on Phoenix Down. In addition, if you want to detour for another Summon spell, you'll see some petrification action, so more than a few Gold Needles won't hurt. Seriously, the petrification will be all over the place.

This town's a hole. Get out. Now, get in yo' submarine and travel to the north where a new summon monster is waiting.
