<a id="s4-34-1"></a>

### 4.34.1. The fight with Catoblepas

Opponents: Cure Beast (#115), Land Turtle (#116), Dechirer (#117), Druid (#176), Ironback (#177), Catoblepas (#281)

Miscellaneous items: Angel Ring (rare Druid steal), Catoblepas (guaranteed Catoblepas drop)

Summon spells: Catoblepas

Blue spells: Dark Spark

"Well, I was up there, and this huge eye started glaring at me! It's amazing I made it back alive!"

With the submarine, travel to the northern-most white dot on the World Map. You should find a cave here; take the submarine there to find yourself in the Sea Floor Cave.

Sea Floor Cave: 35 % Druid x 3 35 % Druid, Ironback 30 % Ironback x 3

There are two kinds of enemies here. Druids are magical adepts; they can slow you down with Web and weaken you with Dischord. They can also use Magnet and Image, an attack that makes them evade the next two physical attacks altogether. Their most dangerous attack is Encircle, which removes a character from battle. They have a rare Angel Ring steal, which is part of the reason you're here. You can Control them to have them cast Dark Spark on you if you wanna.

The Ironbacks are massive beasts with incredible physical force and impressive defense. They should be weakened with Toad, Sleep, Flash or the like immediately. Their elemental weakness is Ice, so take advantage of that. They have an extremely strong !Release attack, so get one or more. A single Released Ironback one-shots the boss we're here to face; they're extremely easy to catch with a Kornago Gourd character and a single casting of Level 4 Graviga. Flash and Pond's Chorus cripple them easily, as does Death Claw.

The Angel Ring is much more of a protective Accessory than the elemental rings are. Superior Magic Defense by far, superior Defense and immunity to two of the most crippling status ailments in the game, Old and Zombie. Nice. I suggest it as THE Accessory at this point in the game, surpassing the elemental rings, Elven Mantles and Genji Gloves.

This is a great place to train. The encounters yield impressive ABP totals and the encounters are easily defeated when you're properly set up with Lv. 4 Graviga and/or Titan summoning. I heartily recommend a Thief, both for the ability to avoid devastating Back Attacks from Ironbacks as well as that rare Angel Ring. Ideally, you leave this place with four Angel Rings and a !Caught Ironback, but getting all those Angel Rings can be hard, boring work and they're not essential until far later in the game.

Northern Lake Forest:

**35 % Catoblepas > Dechirer, Land Turtle, Cure Beast x 2**

35 % Dechirer, Land Turtle, Cure Beast x 2

30 % Dechirer x 5

Tiny bits of grassland: 35 % Land Turtle 35 % Cure Beast, Land Turtle x2 30 % Cure Beast x4

Back on the Map, there's nothing there. Sure, a Chocobo forest, but the only Chocobo present is a female, so we can't ride her.

That's not the kind of logic I grew up with, amiright guyz?

Guyz?

... the thing we're looking for is Catoblepas, a random encounter. You'll randomly encounter it.

**Level:** 38, HP: 5000, MP: 500 · **Defense:** 20, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Phoenix Down (rare) · **Win:** Catoblepas (always) · **Creature:** Dragon, Heavy, Magic Beast · **Special Technique:** !Rush · **Special Technique Effect:** Paralyze · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Stop · **Attacks:** Battle, Drain, Evil Eye

Catoblepas

Here's the eye! It's a pig. The pig is dangerous. It'll randomly attack physically and cast Drain, but its biggest annoyance is its Evil Eye attack, which it directs against everything that deals HP damage to it. The Ribbon protects against Petrify, but that's about it. The best you can do is prepare with Gold Needles.

Summon Golem to protect against physicals. You can't really do anything about his Drain spell other than draining his MP, which a few successive Magic Hammer spells can accomplish. Drain deals around 300 damage, so you can easily outheal it. Even then, Evil Eye still lurks.

You can simply skip to whoever deals the most damage to this guy. When Catoblepas counters this attack with Evil Eye, quickly restore the softness with a Gold Needle or Esuna with one of the three back-up characters. You won't lose this battle.

Another option is casting Poison on his and simply waiting. He'll attack you all the while, but after 16 turns he'll definitely be dead and Evil Eye never made an appearance.

Releasing an Ironback will deal anywhere between 5400 and 6000 damage, instantly killing Cato. This is useful! I suggest Catching another Ironback for the future. The next boss fight won't really need an Ironback, but being able to dish out that kind of damage at whatever level really is kinda useful.

iOS/Android: Released Ironbacks only deal around 2700 damage. Also, Drain deals somewhat more damage, around 500. So your best bet is sucking up the Evil Eye attacks, are buffing and healing with everybody except for a Ribbon- wearing powerhouse, possible summoning Titan or casting Aeroga or a level 5 Black spell.

Anyway, you get the Catoblepas item after the battle. It teaches your Summoner to summon him in battle. It's simply an ST Petrify-inducing attack like Break was, but Catoblepas' Demon Eye is more accurate, ignores the Reflect status and looks cooler. It's also much more MP-costly.

When you're done (also with the Angel Rings?), it's really really time to go visit Ghido. He's waiting for us and Krile's headache probably bothers her. It's right there in the middle of your World Map.
