<a id="s4-35-3"></a>

### 4.35.3. The fight against the Guardians

**Level:** 77, HP: 7777, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 20% · **Steal:** Elixir (rare) · **Win:** Ash (rare) · **Absorbs:** its respective element, Nullifies: Holy, Poison, Lightning, Ice · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Darkness, Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack, Firaga / Aeroga / Aqua Breath / Earth Shaker

?

This fight has four targets. They represent the elements of the crystals; each target possesses a single element. This target absorbs that element and will use an elemental attack accordingly when weakened. Below 3000 HP, the Fire Guardian will cast Firaga, the Water Guardian will cast Aqua Breath, the Earth Guardian uses Earth Shaker and the Wind Guardian casts Aeroga. All attacks are always used on the entire party. The Guardians are laid out like this:

Fire Wind Water Earth

I suggest you start the battle by casting Flash and Slowga until most enemies are blinded and slowed. You can Summon Golem to turn yourself immune to their physical attacks and Shell to protect against the magical ones when they do appear. The Mix outcome Dark Sigh (Eye Drops + Dragon Fang) sets Darkness disregarding their evasion, but I feel it's a waste of a rare and valuable Dragon Fang. You can cast Float to avoid Earth Shaker and Mix an Ether with some Eye Drops to gain a Resist Fire potion that will make the afflicted character absorb the Firaga spells. Now, you're set to destroy them without having to worry too much. Take your time and select one target at a time before moving on to the next.

The key to their defeat lies in the lack of Heavy nature and vulnerability to the Death status. The Mix outcome Death Potion (Phoenix Down + Dark Matter) instantly kills a Guardian. Death Claw also works, although the Guardians' high level will make sure Death Claw will often miss. Missile and Graviga are spells that will deal a great amount of damage to these things, but expect a powerful attack coming your way before you can kill them. The Shell status helps reduce this danger by a lot.

The fight isn't too hard, you can just maneuver yourself in a situation where you'll be VERY killed VERY quickly if you don't watch out.

In the end, it seems we've made a bit of a slip-up there. Exdeath arrives to assume domination of the crystals of this world; the very crystals we've granted it access to. Krile comes to rescue us from Exdeath's torment only to find herself as a target of Exdeath's force as well. In a display both heroic and foolish, Galuf fights back the power of one of the crystals, shattering it. The effects of this act will have to be seen; for now, Galuf faces Exdeath, alone.

Galuf will never die in this battle, though he'll remain at 0 HP for most of it. If he gains HP back, you'll see the Sap status in effect, which is continuous throughout the battle. If Galuf uses Self-Destruct, Transfusion or TNT (a !Mix outcome), the battle will end automatically. Exdeath will have to take 7000 damage before it'll get angered and casts the three ultimate spell from the main magic schools: the Black Flare spell, the White Holy spell and the Time Meteor spell. After that, damaging Exdeath three times will end the battle.

iOS/Android: Self-Destruct will not end the battle. I have not tested this yet, but I would assume neither will Transfusion and TNT.

...

And thus, Galuf Halm Baldesion fell, and so did the world weep.
