<a id="s4-35-1"></a>

### 4.35.1. Our brilliant leader: the great Sage Ghido

Opponents: Dark Aspic (#113), Metamorph (#114)

Miscellaneous items: Staff of Light (rare Metamoprh drop)

Blue spells: Pond's Chorus, Aeroga, Flash, Vampire

First room, B2, B3: 35 % Metamorph (Shiva, Cait Sith, Elf Toad) 35 % Dark Aspic x 2 23 % Metamorph (Ifrit, Wyvern, Enchanted Fan) 6 % Dark Aspic x 4

The first room with hidden passages (officially still B3): 35 % Metamorph (Ifrit, Wyvern, Enchanted Fan) 35 % Metamorph (Shiva, Cait Sith, Elf Toad) 23 % Dark Aspic x 2 6 % Dark Aspic x 4

All others: 35 % Metamorph (Shiva, Ifrit, Ramuh) 35 % Metamorph (Ramuh, Crew Dust, Zombie Dragon) 23 % Metamorph (Ramuh, Crew Dust, Zombie Dragon) 6 % Dark Aspic x 4

Dark Aspic attacks physically and may use Vampire to restore lost HP. A Flame Scroll or Ifrit's Inferno should take them all out. They're not that interesting.

Metamorph just sits there and takes abuse until he transforms into one of the three different forms that particular Metamorph you're facing can morph into. He'll use an attack based on his form and then revert. The attacks are these:

**Shiva:** Blizzara · **Cait Sith:** !Catscratch (unblockable, pierces Defense) · **Elf Toad:** Pond's Chorus · **Ifrit:** Blaze · **Wyvern:** Breath Wing · **Enchanted Fan:** Aeroga · **Ramuh:** Lightning · **Crew Dust:** Flash · **Zombie Dragon:** Zombie Breath

M. won't keep his Wind-elemental weakness when morphed. Metamorph may rarely drop a Staff of Light, but only when you kill him in his 'normal' form. Make sure to try and learn Aeroga from Metamorph's Enchanted Fan form; it's the 3rd tier Wind-elemental spell and the Blue Mage's most consistent means of powerful damage output in the game. Boosted with Air Knives (or the Wind Slash katana), they'll rip Metamorphs to shreds. Be wary of the Zombie Dragon form; Zombie Breath can deal up to 950 damage and turns all that it kills into Zombies (unless the target is protected by Angel Rings).

iOS/Android: Metamorph is mistakingly in the Back Row in this game, so you'll find most phyiscal attacks lacking. A Dragoon can !Jump with a Wind Spear hits a weakness, but mostly just stick with !Gaia, which will summon the powerful Cave-in most of the time.

The Staff of Light deals a little Holy-elemental damage and has the ability to cast the Holy spell when used as an item. It breaks when releasing the light inside. The Staff of Light is the best option for the White Mage easily, and has use on Time Mages and Chemists since it boosts Magic Power. I find myself going for physical evasion (Main Gauche) instead, but your experiences may differ.

Get a Ninja and have them Throw Flame Scrolls; you no longer worry about Dark Aspic encounters. Those who can summon Ifrit will also do, but make sure the conjurers are wielding a Flame Rod. What's left is the Metamorph. The Air Knife, Dragoon's Wind Lance and the Aeroga spell are your ticket to Wind-elemental attacks. Note that strangely, the Samurai's Wind Slash katana is, itself, not Wind-elemental. The random Gale Cut attack is, however, and the katana can be used to boost Wind-elemental attacks such as Aera and Aeroga. Any character using the Geomancer's !Gaia has a shot at Wind Slash, which can also be boosted by the Air Knife. When picking a random number between 0 and the !Gaia user's level, any result between 21 and 50 will net you Wind Slash. Since the other attacks are also useful (Will o' the Wisp may set Confuse on Metamorph, Stalactite deals solid damage), !Gaia is a good action ability here. The most straight-forward strategy is just learning Aeroga ASAP here, then having two characters cast it on Metamorp before he changes into something grizzly.

Just walk on until you come in a room with one full chest, four empty ones and a lot of closed doors. Taking a heavy stone out of the middle chest closes the door you came through, but putting it any of the empty chests opens another one.

1 2 5 3 4

Take the stone from #5 and deposit it in #1. Walk into the newly opened door, push the button to open a new path and return. Take the stone from #1 and put it in #3. Continue to find yourself in what appears to be a dead end. There's a hidden passage to the south which is not of the kind you do or do not see with Find Passages; you'll see the thing when you get near. It leads to a skull switch; flip it open a new passage leading further down into the cave. Down here, a few caves are connected with the same kind of passages, you'll see them easily. Spelunking, that's what you're doing now.

It continues like this for a while until you see a turtle in a pond. Diving in will take you to see the great Sage Ghido, old and wise leader of this world's resistance versus Exdeath.

"By the briny beard of Neptune!"

Note that Guido's derogatory tone is absent from the original game, and was implemented for fun by the GBA remake team; it was not a bad choice.

When you've taken the Guardian Branch with you, you can return to the submarine. If you have yet to obtain a Staff of Light or have another reason to linger, do so. Else, you can cast Teleport to find yourself in the submarine again.

The Forest of Moore, strangely, is near the town of Moore. I took you there earlier, so I won't discuss Moore again. If you feel the need to read up again, go back to section 4.33.1 or something. This is a good time to purchase things you lacked the finances for earlier.
