<a id="s4-35-2"></a>

### 4.35.2. The Great Forest of Moore

Opponents: Mini Magician (#118), Galajelly (#119), Mammon (#120), Imp (#121), Wyrm (#122), (Crystal) (#277), (Crystal) (#278), (Crystal) (#279), (Crystal) (#280)

Container contents: 2500 Gil, 4900 Gil, 9500 Gil, Ether, Phoenix Down, Cottage, Goliath Tonic, Morning Star, Elixir, Aegis Shield OR Flame Shield, Ash, Flametongue

Miscellaneous items: Ash (rare (Crystal) drop), Dragon Fang (rare Wyrm drop), Elixir (rare (Crystal) steal)

Blue pells: Lilliputian Lyric, Aera, Aeroga, Aqua Breath

Entrance: 35 % Galajelly x 3 35 % Galajelly x 2, Mini Magician x 2 23 % Mammon x 3, Mini Magician x 2 6 % Mammon x 2, Galajelly x 2, Mini Magician

Middle part: 35 % Mammon x 3, Mini Magician x 2 35 % Mammon x 2, Galajelly x 2, Mini Magician 23 % Imp x 2 6 % Imp, Mammon x 2, Galajelly

Roots: 35 % Wyrm 35 % Wyrm, Mini Magician x 2 30 % Mini Magician x 6

Final part: 35 % Imp, Mammon x 2, Galajelly 35 % Imp x 2, Galajelly, Mini Magician 23 % Wyrm 6 % Wyrm, Mini Magician

The Great Forest of Moore is the birthplace of Exdeath, and a dark maze of intelligent trees. Tree spirits may open paths for you, but you'll need to find them first. And even with the Guardian Branch, there are many creatures in the forest who don't take too kindly to strangers.

Mini Magicians must never be Confused, as they will cast spells such as Return (hassle) and Mute (bad for you). They may randomly cast Lilliputian Lyric, a Blue spell, similar to Pond's Chorus, which sets Mini. Well, why not. You can't Control them for it, so you'll have to wait and be patient. They will use it every third turn. You can have your White Mage heal Mini with the Mini spell or use the so-far useless Mallet.

Galajelly absorbs every element except Wind, and has crazy Evasion ratings. Aero spells are powerful enough, even MT'd, to kill them. !Gaia attacks always off them too, even Leaf Swirl. They have an attack called Rainbow Wind that sets both Darkness AND Silence, rendering a character incapable of both physical and most magical attacks.

Mammon, like the Treants you saw earlier, like to cast the Berserk spell on themselves. Their physical onslaught is not very scary, and they are weak to Fire-elemental attacks.

Imp! I hate the Imp. They are fairly sturdy since they have no elemental weaknesses and have 2000 HP. Also, they may cast Confuse on characters, which is annoying. Especially versus the Imps it is nice to be able to inflict Stop or Confuse status all the time. They are not very interesting at all, they just suck.

Wyrms may look intimidating, but are not so. Physicals to disregard? Breath Wing very rarely? Puh-leaze. You and me, we eat these babies for dinner and then some. It is a Dragon.

I've got a great strategy 4 u. All the monsters here are vulnerable to Romeo's Ballad, so have one character who can !Sing use it at all times. Have the other three attack, preferably with options that don't consume anything. Consider !Gaia as an easy way of dealing damage for the mages without using MP; though considerably weaker in terms of damage output, you'll suffer from *very* few hits in the Great Forest as long as you keep Romeo's Ballad up, so the speed of the battle isn't that important. Blue magic comes in read handy versus Galajelly encounters; Titan is a powerful attack versus all the other enemies here.

This is a long-ass walk through the park for you, so if you are adamant about Black Mages and Summoners, prepare to use Ethers and the like. If you possess the !Mix ability, using a Lilith's Kiss (Ether + Maiden's Kiss) will restore all the MP a target has (Imps top the chart with 200), or simply !Mix a Turtle Shell and a Potion to create a 80 MP restoring Ether. Flame Scrolls are handy versus Mammons and, coming from sufficient Magic Power, able to kill Mini Magicians in a single hit as well.

Enter the forest. Dead ahead is a chest containing 2500 Gil. To the right is a tree with a hole in it; this is where a tree's spirit can be found. Next to the three is a chest with an Ether. Get the Ether and interact with the tree go gain passage. Beneath the tree's roots, you travel to a new part of the forest.

Going up, bending to the right for a few tiles, you'll come across a chest with 4900 Gil. Keep to the top edge and walk to the right to find a Phoenix Down in a chest surrounded by flowers. Continue following the top border to the right, but pass up a tree with a hole in it and continue. Eventually, there's a chest with 9500 Gil. Now, return to the spirit tree and open the new passageway.

You clearly see a chest when you surface; it contains a Cottage. All the way to the right is a chest containing a Goliath Tonic. Go all the way up from there and find a special Save Point, which you might need by now. From there, go to the left, up and a little up again; there's a chest with an Elixir. Now, go all the way up and stick to the right side until you encounter a chest with a Morning Star. This is some kind of super-Flail; it deals physical damage and combines with Two-Handed. It's for everybody who uses Staves. Even with Two-Handed, damage isn't impressive. Now, go to the left.

Suddenly, a disaster strikes. There's not really anywhere you can go. There's a chest here containing an Aegis Shield. If you wait for a very slight while, you'll be able to pick up a Flame Shield instead. Neither picking up the Aegis Shield nor the Flame Shield has any influence on your Treasure %.

The Flame Shield gives 7 Defense, 40 % Evade, 5 Magic Defense and allows the wearer to absorb Fire-elemental attacks.

The Aegis Shield gives only 5 Defense, 33 % Evade, no Magic Defense and merely protects against the Petrify status ailment. However, the Aegis Shield make a similar check to magical attack as the Main Gauche does for physicals. 33 % of any blockable magical attack misses a character with the Aegis Shield equipped. There is no such thing as 'unblockable' when it comes to the Aegis Shield; especially if you have Flame Rings, the Aegis Shield is probably the better choice.

If you pick the Aegis Shield or not, eventually a Moogle will pop up. Drop down and wait until the fire has raged out. You can restore your HP/MP in the water. Go up to see the disastrous results of Exdeath's forest genocide. There's the chest again; you can pick up the Flame Shield now if you didn't pick the Aegis Shield earlier.

Burned forest: 35 % Galajelly x 3 35 % Galajelly x 2, Mini Magician x 2 23 % Mammon x 3, Mini Magician x 2 6 % Mammon x 2, Galajelly x 2, Mini Magician

Simply go to the left now that leaves and shadows are no longer blocking your vision. Get some Ash from a treasure chest. Ash can be Thrown, but it'll do pathetic damage and has no other use (at least, in the Super Famicom and PSX versions; it can be used with !Combine in FFVA). To the south there's an exit which'll take you to the Overworld Map. To the far left there's a Knightsword called the Flametongue; it's a Fire-elemental sword that's actually rather powerful. Note that a Knight with a Flametongue and a Flame Ring or Flame Shield can heal him- or herself. Also note that these Knights should be in the Front Row, as when they're in the Back Row they'll only deal 25% damage to themselves :/

Pressing on to the north will get you to the Guardian Tree.

Enter, please.
