<a id="s4-36-1"></a>

### 4.36.1. The fight with the Gil Turtle; get rich or die tryin'

Opponents: Undergrounder (#98), Gil Turtle (#282)

Miscellaneous items: 10 Gil, 20 Gil, 40 Gil, 80 Gil, 160 Gil, 320 Gil, 640 Gil, 1280 Gil, 2560 Gil, 5120 Gil, 10240 Gil, 20480 Gil, 40960 Gil

It's a harsh transition between Galuf's demise and the order of everyday, but as so often the world does not stop to mourn a single death. Exdeath must pay, but there's more to do. Mainly, since the end of the next dungeon will mean a BIG change in your options, this section is an overview of what you can still do here. There's a side-quest to be done which cannot be done later but is so special it's not like normal side-quests. Basically, all you get from it is a LOT of Gil, and the only thing you have to do is punch a turtle.

I shouldn't forget to mention that this turtle is an undead demonic Testudine with the strength of a thousand evil armies and almost impenetrable defenses. It's also poisonous. Most parties won't be able to defeat it, and even if you followed everything I've told you so far. Gil Turtle is an extremely powerful opponent which requires you to utilize special tactics to take him down.

Should you want to travel between Castle Bal and Castle Exdeath, you could take the Wind Drake and make a detour over Drakenvale and Quelb. However, a more direct route takes you through Gil Cave, of which the entrances lie east of Castle Bal and south-west of the Big Bridge. Here, only Undergrounder's appear; giant centipedes which attack with physical attacks and Earthquake, an MT Earth- elemental attack which you can avoid with Float. Level 4 Graviga can be used to quickly put a dent in all Undergrounder's HP, then finish with whatever.

In the middle of the path under the mountains is a pathway downwards which eventually curls upwards to a door. There's a bit where you can't see your lead character, but as soon as you can see him or her again, every tile will award you with Gil! Every step will get you twice the amount the previous tile rewarded you with. None of these pieces o' gold count towards your Treausre %. However, only the sun is free these days and for every step you take there's a chance Gil Turtle will attack you. He'll only attack you when you pick up Gil, so on the way back he won't make a showing. But oh, when he does make a showing...

**Level:** 57, HP: 32768, MP: 8000 · **Defense:** 40, Magic Defense: 55 · **Evasion:** 40%, Magic Evasion: 40% · **Steal:** Potion (rare), Hi-Potion (common) · **Absorbs:** Water, Wind, Earth, Poison, Lightning, Fire · **Nullifies:** Holy · **Weakness:** Ice · **Status:** Protect, Shell · **Creature:** Undead, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Turtle · **Special Technique Effect:** sets Darkness, Poison and Confuse · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Turtle, Earthquake

Gil Turtle

Gil Turtle's AI script is simple and effective. He's fast like greased lightning and attacks physically every turn. When damaged by whatever, he'll counter with !Turtle, which deals the same amount of brutal physical damage and sets Darkness and Poison. He counters every attack you send flying at him with two !Turtle attacks. When defeated, he'll use an Earthquake attack which deals around 3500 damage to the entire party. If you're not Floating, you die. Cast Float beforehand, I suppose.

The strategy here depends a little on luck. His weakness is Ice, and that's what we'll have to exploit in order to defeat the thing. Boosted Blizzaga spells and Blizzaga spellblade effects are your best options on the offense; Requiem and Level 3 Flare also deal damage though quite a lot less. The key to your protection is the fact that whatever Gil Turtle is throwing at you,

however, intimidatingly powerful, are simply blockable physical attacks. Also, Gil Turtle's fast and will decimate you if you're loitering, but his true strength is his dual !Turtle omni-counter. This means that you can relatively safely boost your own strength in the meantime.

Equip Main Gauches and Elven Mantles; you've got two of the former and three of the latter if you picked up everything so far. Evasion is far superior to defense in this battle. The White Blink spell and the Ninja's !Image ability both grant the affected character the prospect of dodging the next two physical attacks, and Golem's Earthen Wall stops his attacks as well. With Golem, a few images and your own enhanced evasive abilities, Gil Turlte will get in precious few hits. A Knight will protect all characters that are crouching down. With !Guard set, it will catch all of Gil Turtle's attacks and take no damage. If you give the Knight your Bone Mail, it will become immune to !Turtle's status part as well.

Set up the above and cast Hastega. Now, have every character capable of dealing significant damage do so. If a character is not capable of making a large impact (say, you've made a Time Mage with !Summon to support the party) just use Defense rather than deal a little damage, as Gil Turtle's counterattacks aren't worth it. Keep healing, reviving and damaging and you should be able to outpower Gil Turtle.

Note that once you leave the area behind the door, the tiles reset. Again, the first tile contains 10 Gil, the last tile contains 40960 Gil and Gil Turtle may appear whenever it feels like it. Infinite amounts of money, sure, but one trip gets you 81910 Gil which already is a all the Gil you'll be spending in the future so there's really no good reason to do it all again.

Kelger: "Xezat...and Galuf... It seems I am all that remains of the Dawn Warriors... How ironic - the oldest and weakest of we four is the only one who still lives..."

Ghido will also have some pricess advice for you if you bother to seek him out at this point:

Ghido: "Exdeath is returning to his castle. Defeat him before it's too late!"

In Castle Bal, everybody dislikes Exdeath. This is because it killed their king. The same goes for Surgate Castle, where all the soldiers mourn the death of King Xezat. Since so many wounded soldiers return from the siege on Exdeath's Castle, the Inn is needed as a hospital and you can't use it.

**a bug will occur:** the doesn't take into account that Krile replaced Galuf

If you never entered the Sealed Castle of Kuza, and you take your team there, in your team, so Galuf will still talk about the history of the castle.

Like I said, at the end of the next dungeon comes a big change for you. Make sure you got the following; if you miss some stuff and care to see if you can still get it, please do.

White: Blink, Shell, Esuna, Curaga, Reflect, Berserk

Black: Drain, Break, Bio, Firaga, Blizzaga, Thundaga

Time: Float, Teleport, Comet, Slowga, Return, Graviga, Hastega, Old

Summon: Golem, Catoblepas

Blue: Aqua Breath Level 5 Death Level 4 Graviga Level 3 Flare Level 2 Old Pond's Chorus Lilliputian Lyric Flash Time Slip Death Claw Aera Aeroga Flame Thrower Goblin Punch Dark Spark Off-Guard Transfusion Vampire Magic Hammer Self-Destruct ??? 1000 Needles White Wind Missile

Songs: Requiem, Swift Song

Pianos: Regole, Moore

The spells, Songs and pianos are not missable. Catoblepas can be forever lost, and Golem will be much harder to track down in the future than he is now, so make sure to obtain both allies.

Noteworthy items: Those Staves of Light that are a rare drop from Metamorph are something to consider; past this point it's a rare steal from a boss and then it's all over as far as Staves of Light go. Best to get one now if you don't have it yet.

Special treasures: There's really not that much you could have left behind. Found the treasures in the Moogle Village? Collected enough Dragon Fangs for the upcoming dungeon? Did you ever get the Kornago Gourd? Obtained the Swift Song and all? Stolen enough Twin Lances?

Bestiary (52%): Normal enemies: #70 - #122 (exception #87), #176 and #177 Aquatic enemies: - Boss enemies: #266 - #282

Necessary items: This is a good time to invest in a load of Gold Needles and Lightning Scrolls both of which can be bought in Quelb. They'll be both be useful in the future and this is the last place you can buy them before you come across that future.

Just for funsies, version 2, here's an example of one of my teams at the moment:

LV 5 Knight LV 2 Monk LV 1 Dragoon LV 4 Samurai LV 1 Berserker LV 2 Ranger LV 2 Mystic Knight LV 3 Blue Mage

Still mainly a heavy armor kinda guy, but Bartz is branching out into the world. A Ranger dip for !Aim, and I got !Blue for him. Goblin Punch and his HP-based attacks work well on a slow, strong hitter; Goblin Punch is unblockable when accuracy is of the essence. The Dragoon and Mystic Knight are more or less wasted ABP to be honest, as they don't teach anything funky they can't do better themselves.

Eventually, Bartz will have to learn !Rapid Fire, Dual-Wield and master Monk, Thief and Oracle and he is working on NONE of those things at this point. Oh, well.

Lenna:

LV 3 Black Mage LV 6 Time Mage LV 5 Summoner LV 3 Blue Mage LV 3 Red Mage LV 2 Geomancer LV 2 Chemist LV 1 Ranger LV 2 Dancer

Does things from the Back Row with Magic Power. Maxed out Summoner early so for the rest of her career, she's got the option to maximize Magic on herself. !Dance is 50% Magic-based, as is !Mix on some very rare occasions. What could be missing here is !Sing, I suppose... Working on Black Mage at the moment, which explains the arbitrary stop at LV 3 there.

In the future lies the dreaded path to !Dualcast, but learning to master the four schools of magic comes first.

Krile:

LV 4 White Mage LV 6 Black Mage LV 5 Time Mage LV 1 Summoner LV 3 Blue Mage LV 3 Red Mage LV 2 Chemist LV 1 Geomancer LV 3 Bard *** LV 1 Ranger

Another spellslinger, Krile has !Sing instead of !Summon 5. Mastered Bard even, but it was an accident, I promise. Working White Magic here... with the exception of !Summon 5 not a single magic skillset take precedence over another since if you want a magic skillset, you just become the appropriate Job and set another one to complement it.

She'll be a !Dualcaster like Lenna in the future, but not now.

Faris:

LV 2 Monk LV 5 Thief LV 4 Ninja LV 2 Ranger LV 3 Beastmaster

A short list, but most ABP disappeared into the Ninja class for Dual-Wield. Not quite there yet since I refuse to go out of my way for it, but being a Ninja is not a punishment. Faris walks around and either has !Control or Barehanded, depends on the dungeon. She walks around as a Thief until I know I've got all items I want.

Like Bartz, Faris will become a !Rapid Fire, Dual-Wield monkey for me; she's getting there already, so I basically traded using Heavy Armor Jobs on Bartz NOW for reaching limit-breaking abilities earlier. I stand by that choice.
