<a id="s4-37-3"></a>

### 4.37.3. The fight with the dark warlock Exdeath

"Believe what you wish. Simple-minded fools such as yourselves could never hope to understand my motives. It matters not. I will tolerate no more interruptions!"

**Level:** 66, HP: 32768, MP: 32768 · **Defense:** 25, Magic Defense: 25 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 85% · **Steal:** Judgment Staff (rare), Elixir (common) · **Nullifies:** Poison · **Weakness:** Holy · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Vacuum Wave · **Special Technique Effect:** 150 % damage, adds the Sap status · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Vacuum Wave, Dispel, Bio, Firaga, Blizzaga, Thundaga, Doom,

Exdeath Level 3 Flare, Haste, Gravity, Meteor, Reverse Polarity, 100 Gs, Blaze, Earth Shaker, Hurricane, Zombie Breath

Exdeath will be a supreme test of your strength and wisdom; its HP is by far the highest of any enemy you've had to defeat so far, and its attacks vary greatly. Its broad array of attacks are employed when it starts off. You've seen most of them, though Exdeath uses them with great effect. Doom is a Blue spell you can learn from the fiend; it sets a timer on a target of 30 units. When the countdown reaches 0, the target dies. Doom doesn't work on Heavy targets. Opponents defeated with Doom yield no Experience points or dropped items. 100 Gs removes the Float status. Zombie Breath is an MT barrier-piercing non-elemental attack which, should it kill any of your characters, turns it into a Zombie. If the character is wearing an Angel Ring or is otherwise protected against the Zombie status ailment, he or she will just die. So, y'know, good news there.

The effects of Doom are annoying, and there's no way to get rid of it. It's possible to defeat Exdeath before the timer runs out, but you'll need to be powerful indeed. Setting Haste on any person with a Countdown will halve the number (setting Slow will double it), but that shouldn't stop you from using Hastega. If you really want to learn it now, Return is a good spell for that; since Exdeath will cast Doom 66% of the time on his first turn but almost never later in the battle, you could simply cast Return until he has cast Doom on your Learning character. Alternatively, you could cast Return until Exdeath starts off with a physical attack to circumvent Doom altogether.

When Exdeath hits 16000 HP (around halfway), it'll get more offensive but also more linear. It'll use physical attacks, !Vacuum Wave and the -aga spells only, though it'll often take two actions in a row. In this stage, a combination of Golem's Earthen Wall or the Image status and the Reflect status completely nullify all of its attempts of damaging you.

When reaching 7000 HP, it'll seriously weaken and stop taking two actions in a row; as a last resort, it'll try his hand on the ultimate Time magic, Meteor. This is an extremely powerful attack that hits four times four random targets on your side for powerful barrier-piercing non-elemental damage. Reflect status is ignored by Meteor.

An interesting point is that Exdeath here was supposed to have inherent Regen set, but it isn't active in this battle. Its regenerative abilities are even an important plot point if you remember the reason he was sealed in Bartz' world in the first place; oh well.

There are a few tactics you can use. Heavy Armor characters, I'm sad to say, won't be all that useful in this fight. Their physical attacks will cause Exdeath to cast Dispel more often than is necessary. Their damage will be sub- par. Mystic Knights with Dual-Wield or Two-Handed can cast Drain on their weapons and become self-sustaining throughout the fight. !Blue is a worthwhile ability on Knights and such; White Wind and Goblin Punch benefit greatly, Vampire, Dark Spark and Off-Guard are nice benefits as well.

Yes! Mages are the best in this fight. Boosted -aga spells deal around 2000 damage. When you have a party covered in the Reflect status (Reflect Rings or Caruncle's Ruby Light) you can cast the spell on all four targets. 3000 damage divided by two (due to MT casting) but bounced off to Exdeath four times (due to there being four targets) equals a lot of damage. This also works with the Blue Aeroga spell, only even boosted this'll get you 1500/3000 damage-ish.

Anybody with the !Mix ability also is able to deal a lot of damage, and this one doesn't depend on the Reflect status. First, drink a Goliath Tonic. If you lack the !Drink command, you can mix an Elixir with a Dragon Fang for the same result. Now, mix a Dragon Fang with some Holy Water to produce the Holy Breath attack, a Holy-elemental attack that deals as much damage as the caster has at that point. Your characters temporarily bloated amount of HP paired together with the fact Holy Breath deals double damage as it's Holy-elemental... again, around 4000 damage. This works best on those with high Stamina, so Monks are ideal for this. !Mix also grants you the ability to revive fallen characters completely healed (both HP and MP) by combining a Potion with a Phoenix Down, and completely heal themselves with a Succubus Kiss (Turtle Shell + Maiden's Kiss). !Mix really rocks, never forget it.

Clothes characters can keep themselves busy in this battle, sure. First, the Beastmaster's !Catch ability allowed it to capture a Yellow Dragon before the fight. When released, its Lightning attack will deal exactly 25 % of Exdeath's maximum HP, being 8192. You could even - when you disregard the party ethics I've been wanting you to follow - have four Beastmasters release four Yellow Dragons for a quick win. Adamantite Golems are also very powerful. Dual Twin Lances are quite efficient as well; set Berserk with the White Mage or through !Mix and watch the damage fly. Exdeath has some Defense though; you can remove some of it with Off-Guard or Turtle Soup (Mix an Antidote with a Turtle Shell).

NEVER SET SLOW, as Exdeath will retort with a Haste spell every time. Slow and Slowga spells are out. You could theoretically, dunno, !Catch a Tarantula and get it to use a Thread attack to set Slow and not have Exdeath counter it. In addition, you can set Reflect on Exdeath, bounce the Slow spell from one of your Reflective characters, have Exdeath bounce HIS Haste spell off his own Reflect barrier onto one of your characters. Man, fun stuff.

Summon Golem for physical protection and Carbuncle for magical protection and offense increase for -aga casters. Have your physical characters do whatever they wanna do and cast -aga spells on all four characters to deal your massive damage. Exdeath should be a walk in the park if you have the abilities to pull this one off.

Anyway, Exdeath is one of the tougher battles you've faced so far, but nothing extremely difficult. When you've defeated Exdeath, the three crystals of Galuf's world shatter...

...
