<a id="s4-37-1"></a>

### 4.37.1. Castle Exdeath 1; ascension and the fight with Carbuncle

Opponents: Twin Lizard (#123), Blind Wolf (#124), Hellraiser (#125), Reflect Mage (#126), Magic Dragon (#127), Black Warlock (#128), Adamantite Golem (#129), Bandercoeurl (#130), Iron Fist (#131), Blue Dragon (#132), Red Dragon (#133), Yellow Dragon (#134), Imp (Ex) (-), Oiseaurare (Ex) (-), Jackanapes (Ex) (-), Abductor (Ex) (-), Carbuncle (#283), Gilgamesh (#284), Exdeath (#285)

Container contents: 8000 Gil, 9900 Gil, Diamond Shield, Elixir x 2, Ether, Fuma Shuriken, Ice Shield, Hayate Bow, Icebrand, Kotetsu, Partisan, Twin Lance

Miscellaneous items: Spear (rare Shell Bear steal), Reflect Ring (rare steal from Reflect Mage, common steal from Carbuncle), Power Staff (rare drop from Black Warlock), Judgment Staff (rare steal from Black Warlock), Beast Killer (rare steal from Iron Fist), Flame Ring (rare steal from Red Dragon), Excalipoor (guaranteed Gilgamesh drop), Genji Helm (common steal from Gilgamesh)

Spells: White Wind, Aeroga, Off-Guard, Level 2 Old, Magic Hammer, Moon Flute, Level 3 Flare, Lilliputian Lyric, Pond's Chorus, Time Slip, Flash, Doom

Ground Floor behind Save Point: 35 % Bandercoeurl, Blind Wolf x 2 35 % Iron Fist x 2 23 % Red Dragon, Blue Dragon 6 % Red Dragon

2nd Floor: 35 % Twin Lizard x 2 35 % Blind Wolf x 5 23 % Reflect Mage, Blind Wolf x 2, Twin Lizard 6 % Reflect Mage x 3

3rd Floor (illusion): 35 % Blind Wolf x 5 35 % Twin Lizard x 2, Blind Wolf, Hellraiser 23 % Reflect Mage, Blind Wolf x 2, Twin Lizard 6 % Reflect Mage x 3

A TASK OF H E R O E S

As soon as you enter, the armies of Surgate lie defeated before you. None of them posed any challenge to Exdeath. However, your powers have improved greatly since the last time you got whipped by a band of pirates, so you shouldn't count this situation as proof you stand no chance either. In the basement, Shell Bears and Tarantulas still roam the place. If you never got that Spear from the Shell Bears, get one now or lose it forever. That water past the Save Point can still function as a Recovery Spring, which might aid you. If you go up, new monsters will start appearing. Ready for this?

The Twin Lizards you encounter here are exactly like their counterparts you met near Jachol and on Crescent Island all these millennia ago, only a bit stronger. Weak to Ice-elemental attacks, no special properties.

Blind Wolves are inherently affected by Darkness; they are, in fact, blind. However, they do manage to land a hit on occasion, and when the hit in question is their !Tusk attack it'll set Darkness on you as well. They only have 900 HP and are weak to Fire-elemental attacks; any serious attempt at multi-target violence will kill them, especially a conjuration of Ifrit.

Hellraisers are restorative bunnies like the Cure Beasts you encountered earlier. However, they will simply attack physically until they die, at which point they'll cast Arise on a random target that isn't them. When the target in question was Dead, they'll be revived with full HP. If not, Arise will do nothing. Hellraisers can be Silenced, Stopped, Paralyzed and Berserked to prevent Arise from being cast.

Reflect Mage use Fire, Fira, Blizzard, Blizzara, Thunder and Thundara on themselves. These attacks are weak, and the Reflect Mages themselves are frail. Just don't try to attack them with magical spells that bounce off. Also, make sure never to Confuse them (which basically means, never whip out an Alluring Air) as the Reflect Mages will now start casting Slowga and Thundaga on the enemy party, which bounces off unto you. Gaia's Wrath and physical attacks are grand versus them. They have a rare Reflect Ring steal, which is a much more reliable source than the Reflect Knight's rare drop. Make sure to get at least two of them. An upcoming boss has two far easier Reflect Rings for you to take, and you can take them before really needing them. Stealing them from Reflect Mages is quite easy, since they have no common Steal item; Time Slip disables them for the duration of the fight and bypasses Reflect when cast, as does Mute.

This dungeon is awesome, seriously. A lot of interesting and tough monsters, and all Jobs (much like the flying ruins of Lonka) are pretty much balanced so there's no quick way to defeat the opponents. In addition, all enemies here give really notable amounts of Experience and ABP so you may actually want to go for abilities such as !Rapid Fire and Dual Wield.

Heavy Armor characters will notice that the Dragoon and Berserker both didn't get any better since you left Bartz' homeworld; you're still wielding the Gaia Hammer, and the Partisan is not much more powerful than the Javelin you stole before you even got a Dragoon in the first place. This makes them noteably less powerful than the Knight (whose Icebrand and Flametongue swords can be swapped around mid-battle for elemental might) and the Samurai catches up just before the final boss of this dungeon.

Mage characters will see !Black re-appearing as the ultimate offensive force. Titan is still very useful for crowd control, Golem is a good idea even versus some random encounters (such as fighting dragons) and Catoblepas sees a few uses in the dungeon.

Going up will get you to the second floor. Two chests here; the left one contains an Ether, the right one a Diamond Shield. Both should be pretty useless by now.

On the third floor, you'll run into a dead end. An old friend helps us out, showing us the true form of Exdeath's castle. Gross. The Warriors of Dawn are dead.

3rd Floor (illusion lifted): 35 % Twin Lizard x 2, Blind Wolf, Hellraiser 35 % Twin Lizard x 2 30 % Reflect Mage x 3

4th Floor & 10th Floor: 35 % Magic Dragon 35 % Magic Dragon, Twin Lizard, Reflect Mage 23 % Magic Dragon x 3, Hellraiser, Blind Wolf 6 % Black Warlock

Magic Dragons are neat. They're sturdy (having 2900 HP) and cast three Blue spells you may not have at this point: Aeroga, Off-Guard and Level 2 Old. Learn all three if you haven't. Magic Dragons are weak to Poison- and Wind-elemental attacks, so Bio and Aeroga (both can be boosted) kill them off relatively quickly. Level 3 Flare and Level 4 Graviga also work like a charm. Beware: Aeroga can deal over 500 damage to a single target.

Black Warlocks are your source for neat staves, and are quite dangerous in addition. They have a rare Judgment Staff you can steal, and drop a rare Power Staff when killed. They largely use annoyer tactics when they're not alone; Confuse, Drain, Stop and Slowga is what they'll cast in addition to using physical attacks. When alone though, the Black Warlock will tap into its darkest arts and start using Death, Break and Banish. Banish sets Death, by the way, to non-Heavy targets. These vile mages can be Confused, Stopped and Silenced, all of which is a good idea; Level 3 Flare can be used for damage.

You really want that Judgment Staff; it's a better weapon than the Staff of Light since it boosts Magic Power by 3 instead of 2, and it can be used as an item to cast Dispel. When used in this fashion, it does NOT break, effectively giving you access to the Dispel spell through this Staff. It can be used to remove the inherent Protect and Shell status on Gil Turtle, making hurting it two times as easy. The Power Staff sets Battle Power to 0 and casts Berserk instead of dealing damage. Mildly useless. When Stealing, Time Slip, Sleep and Stop can be used to keep the Black Warlock subdued and not have it cast instant death spells all the time.

On the fourth floor, there's a metallic switch on the wall you'll need to flip in order to get to a chest containing an Ice Shield, the best normal defensive shield so far. It equals the Flame Shield in every way, though it absorbs Ice rather than Fire (big surprise there). Better for random encounters than any other option, though I'd still go for Aegis Shield versus bosses. This is also the first floor you can encounter Black Warlocks.

5th Floor, 11th Floor: 35 % Black Warlock x 2 35 % Black Warlock x 2, Reflect Mage 23 % Adamantite Golem, Hellraiser x 3 6 % Adamantite Golem x 2

Adamantite Golem are what you'd expect. They attack physically with great strength and take hits well. They're weak to Lightning-elemental attacks (which is odd; Adamantite in our world equals Diamond, and Diamond equipment halves damage done by Lightning. Oh well, shucks if I care) and can be instantly dispatched by a Gold Needle like all stone-based monsters. They make this dungeon's best Catch/Release monster for random encounters as well, performing a powerful physical attack.

On the fifth floor, there's a hidden passage that is nothing but a shortcut. Featureless in all other regards.

6th Floor, 12th Floor: 35 % Adamantite Golem x 2 35 % Adamantite Golem, Black Warlock, Reflect Mage 23 % Bandercoeurl x 2, Black Warlock 6 % Bandercoeurl, Blind Wolf x 2

Bandercoeurl...hey, did you know that the Coeurl is a fictional alien race of predators created by the late science fiction novelist A. E. van Vogt (1912-2000)? It's true. Within the Final Fantasy series, they're feared for their spellcasting abilities, most notably their tendency for Death-setting attacks which they employ with their large whiskers. These Bandercoeurls don't have visible whiskers, but they DO have the Blaster attack they can use. This attack targets a single character and either sets Paralyze (good) or Death (bad). They're weak to Fire-elemental attacks.

The sixth floor has lava! You can access the chest containing an Elixir without much problems, but to get to the hidden chest containing a Hayate Bow you need to cross the lava. The Geomancer's Light Step ability or casting Float on the entire party will save you from pain and ridicule. Get into the lava at whatever descenscion that's closest to you and get into the bottom-right corner. There's a hidden passage taking you straight to the chest.

7th Floor: 35 % Bandercoeurl, Blind Wolf x 2 35 % Iron Fist x 2 23 % Red Dragon, Blue Dragon 6 % Red Dragon

You've met the Red and Yellow variety (probably), but the Blue Dragon is a new one.

**Level:** 38, HP: 6900, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 5 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 30% · **Steal:** Cottage (rare), Dragon Fang (common) · **Win:** Dragon Fang (rare) · **Absorbs:** Ice · **Nullifies:** Earth · **Status:** Float (always) · **Creature:** Dragon · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Berserk, Silence, Slow, · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Frost, Ice Storm

Blue Dragon Stop

This Ice-elemental dragon has no elemental weaknesses but uses and absorbs Ice-elemental attacks. Frost and Ice Storm are both powerful MT Ice-elemental attacks, and the Blue Dragon may also attack physically. With 6900 HP, it'll be a while before you can kill it with straight attacks. Ice Storm is an extremely powerful attack that can deal around 550 damage to all characters, and Frost will deal around 250 damage to all characters while setting Sap. Your Ice Shield makes one character absorb that damage, and Flame Rings will negate the damage as well.

The Blue Dragon is vulnerable to Death, Petrify and Stop and lacks a Heavy nature, so while you can keep them at bay with Romeo's Ballad and the like, Break, Break Spellblade effects and Catoblepas' Demon Eye can instantly kill them. Break Spellblade effects are best, since Blue Dragons will avoid many blockable spells sent their way. You can steal common Dragon Fangs from them.

The Red Dragon was a powerful guardian of two Barrier Tower chests earlier, but now that they're random encounters they haven't weakened in the slightest. You'll be a bit more fit to take them on head-to-head, but they can still pose a good amount of problems. If you haven't learned Level 3 Flare yet, a combination of !Control and the Reflect spell (see the Barrier Tower section for more info) can net you the spell. Boosted Blizzaga spells are extremely powerful versus the Red Dragon, else Requiem and Gaia's Wrath also get the job done. As you should still know, they attack with physical attacks and Atomic Ray, an MT Fire- elemental attack.

Iron Fists simply attack physically and may counter your Attacks with a 33 % chance of using !Counter, which is unblockable, ignores Defense and sets HP Leak, so don't let them. They're kinda weak for all their bad-assery when it comes to looks. They also take double damage from the big three, Fire, Ice and Lightning. You can rarely steal Beast Killers from these cretins, stronger Whips for your Beastmasters. Beast Killers always deal a critical hit to creatures with the Magic Beast nature, which include (in this dungeon) Twin Lizards, Blind Wolves, Hellraisers, Rage, Magic Dragons, Bandercoeurls and Carbuncle.

The seventh floor: a mini-game! But first, know that from the 7th to the 9th floor, you'll be encountering the elemental dragons. You can't really do anything against the Yellow Dragon's Lightning, but the Flame Ring absorbs Atomic Ray and nullifies Frost and Ice Storm, so you should swap to those if you have the items. As for abilities and such, !Sing, !Control and !Summon are all grand.

Anyway, there are two chests here, one path you'll need to take to continue, and walls. Stand on the skull tile to send the bridge hurrying across the hole. Press the action button to stop the thing. When you hit a wall, a monster comes out! The left chest contains an Icebrand (an Ice-elemental Knightsword) and the right chest contains a Kotetsu Katana. Both are nice to have. Note that the Icebrand can be used in tandem with an Ice Shield to heal a target.

1 2 3 4

1: Abductor or Imp 2: Oiseaurare or Abductor 3: Jackanapes or Abductor 4: Abductor or Imp

Note that these are not the exact same monsters you encounter someplace else in the game; Oiseaurare, for example, won't have that awesome rare steal you'll be able to get later, nor will any fight you complete here make an addition to your Bestiary. They perform much like their counterparts, though. Should you want to walk back, standing on the skull tile on the other end will instantly put the bridge in the right position for you to walk over.

There's a Save Point here, leading you to a room where dragons roam. There are powerful creatures you'll definitely want to prepare for. !Control is awesome, and equipping Flame Rings helps protect against Blaze, Frost and Ice Storm. To the right is a hidden passage leading to a chest with an Elixir, to the left is a chest with 9900 Gil.

8th Floor: 35 % Adamantite Golem, Black Warlock, Reflect Mage 35 % Yellow Dragon 23 % Red Dragon 6 % Red Dragon, Blue Dragon

9th Floor: 35 % Iron Fist x 2, Black Warlock 35 % Yellow Dragon x 2 23 % Blue Dragon x 3 6 % Adamantite Golem, Hellraiser x 3

Yellow Dragons lack elemental weaknesses, but also the Heavy property. Make sure you can exploit this weakness, as the fact they can continuously spam Lightning is a recipe for disaster (though those with Diamond equipment will only take half damage). Throw Death Potions, Dark Elixirs, Death Claw, Missile, !Flirt, Graviga around like it's nobodies business. Romeo's Ballad can Stop them, which is nice. Yellow Dragons make a grand !Catch versus the final battle of this dungeon, by the way; Lightning deals 25 % maximum HP, and the boss has quite a lot of it. If you can pick up a Coral Ring after the fight that'd be grand, but in my opinion shooting for four Coral Rings is simply too bothersome (fighting Gil Turtle so you can buy four later is less of a bother).

The ninth and tenth floor will have you alternating often. This is where Iron Fists start appearing. They have a rare Beast Killer Whip for stealing, a Whip which may randomly Paralyze the target (like so many Whips) but will also always deal a critical hit to Magic Beasts, making them quite powerful. Go up and down again to find yourself in a room full of lava. Again, Light Step or Float are a must here. Walk to the far right and go up the stairs to grab the chest containing 8000 Gil. Go back and go up the other stairway open to you. To the left lies a field with skull tiles, rigged with trap floors. The Geomancer's Find Pits is the only thing that allows you to spot them before you tumble down.

2 xxx x00xx xxxxxxx 1x0x0xxx4 xxxxx0x xxx0x xxx 3

1: Entry point 2: Warp tile to Carbuncle 3: Tile to re-connect passageway 4: Chest with Twin Lance 0: Trap floor

To the far right is a chest containing a Twin Lance. If you want to continue, take the bottom skull tile; if you want to get your hands on a new summon beast, take the top one. You'll be warped straight to Carbuncle, whose form may surprise. If you have less than four Reflect Rings, send in a Thief! Make sure that you can heal and have a Mystic Knight or Summoner ready to inflict the Petrify status.

"I'll join you - if you're stronger than me. Come on, show me what you got!"

**Level:** 44, HP: 15000, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 50, Magic Defense: 50 · **Evasion:** 70%, Magic Evasion: 50% · **Steal:** Goliath Tonic (rare), Reflect Ring (common)** · **Win:** Turtle Shell (rare) · **Nullifies:** Earth · **Status:** Float, Reflect (always) · **Creature:** Heavy, Magic Beast · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Petrify*, Toad*, Mini*, Poison*, Darkness, Old*, Sleep*, · **Attacks:** Cura, Fira, Blizzara, Thundara, Bio, Stop, Confuse, Break, Banish,

Carbuncle Paralyze*, Confuse*, Silence, Stop*, Slow Death

*: only when in healing form **: you can steal succesfully from both forms

Carbuncle will cast any of the Black -ra spells for three turns... on himself. Since these spell bounce off, they'll hit one of your characters instead. After three offensive spells, he'll turn into another monster. Not that you'll see this happening; he just does. This other form - I'll call it his healing form - will cast Cura on himself with rather pitiful effects. In this form, he stops Floating, his Reflect barrier is gone, he's weak to all elements and vulnerable to a LOT more status ailments (as described above). The turn after Cura, he'll change back into his normal, hard-to-damage self and he will start casting three more offensive spells. When below 10000 HP, he'll cast Bio, Stop and Confuse. When below 3000 HP, he'll cast Break, Banish and Death, easily the most dangerous spells he could use.

Here's the deal. Carbuncle is almost impossible to damage by any large extent. His Defense and Magic Defense both are extremely high, he has no elemental weaknesses, is immune to Titan's Gaia's Wrath and is inherently Reflective. However, his healing form is when the getting's good. He'll drop a lot of status immunities, his Heavy nature and his Reflect status His defensive and evasive properties will plummet; he'll just keep 10% Evasion and a bit of Defense.

You'll just have to sit back and heal and buff up when Carbuncle is in his offensive mode. Casting Shell on all characters really helps. Flame Rings protect against Fira and Blizzara, so that's a good thing. Silence Spellblade effects will keep Carbuncle from casting spells, but since his Evade is rather high you might want to combine !Aim or !Rapid Fire with !Spellblade to make sure it hits. You can take the opportunity to steal a Reflect Ring from the fiend.

When Carbuncle has cast Cura, act quickly. If you got the options available to you, Carbuncle should never reach his offensive state again. Since Carbuncle's healing form is another monster altogehter as far as the game is concerned, you'll also be able to nab the items of the healing form Carbuncle, which include another common Reflect Ring and a rare Goliath Tonic.

Missile, Graviga, Death Claw and Dark Elixir all work all of a sudden. You can use Romeo's Ballad, Alluring Air, Stop or Sleep to prevent Carbuncle from ever leaving this weakened state. Now, pound on him. Break and Break spellblade effects end the battle instantly. Now that Carbuncle lost his Heavy nature and has gained a weakness against all elements, Spellblade effects of Bio and the -aga spells also kill him instantly. A Dark Elixir or Death Claw followed by the slightest of attacks kills him. Boosted -aga spells deliver massive damage. The battle should be over as soon as you saw Cura appear.

Carbuncle, as a Summon, will set Reflect to all allies; note that Carbuncle is a level 4 Summon spell, so those with level 3 !Summon won't be able to conjure him.

When you're done, descend. You'll get onto another skull warp tile. Get back to the skull tile platform, avoid the pitfalls, stand on the bottom tile and continue.
