<a id="s4-37-2"></a>

### 4.37.2. The fourth fight with Gilgamesh

There's a Save Point here, which you'll want to use. On the eleventh floor, there's a prominent chest in the middle of the room. If you try to open it, you'll be forced to fight Gilgamesh again. If you don't, you can avoid the battle, but you'll also miss out on the three pieces of Genji equipment you haven't obtained yet. I'd definitely open the chest. Not now, though; to the right is a stairway going up to two chests containing a Fuma Shuriken and a Partisan (lame). To continue, pick the chest (or not) and walk up the stairs only to be halted by the general of Exdeath's army (or not).

"Enough expository banter! Now we fight like men! And ladies! And ladies who dress like men!"

**Level:** 53, HP: 55000, MP: 2000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 15 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 30% · **Steal:** Gauntlet/Nothing* (rare), Hi-Potion/Genji Helm* (common) · **Win:** Excalipoor (always) · **Status:** Float · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack, Dischord, Lilliputian Lyric, Dancehall Daze,

Gilgamesh Flash, Hurricane, Pond's Chorus, Time Slip, Rocket Punch

*: When morphed

That's a LOT of HP Gilgamesh has, but know that he'll have written has own death sentence once he starts yappin', which is starts when you have dealt around 13000 HP worth of damage. Gilgamesh' strategy relies mostly on setting annoying status ailments and weakening you while attacking with physical attacks. He'll use all attacks more or less randomly, so I won't bother listing his exact AI script.

Summon Golem's Earthen Wall and cast Hastega to push the battle considerably in your odds. Wearing Bone Mail or a Ribbon really helps in this battle as they'll stop most everything Gilgamesh uses to annoy you. You CAN'T steal the Genji Helm just yet; this'll come later.

If you're looking for a good way to damage Gilgamesh, boosted Black -aga spells are by far the best way to damage Gilly. Dual Twin Lances also get the job done nicely. Your Heavy Armor character(s) will have to sit back and be happy with dealing less damage; Two-Handed Icebrand or Two-Handed Greatsword with Drain Spellblade effects are probably your best options.

After taking enough damage, Gilgamesh will start talking. You can actually stop dealing damage now; he'll go through his lines every turn now, adding insult to injury every time. In the middle of his speech, he'll transform into his eight- armed ultra form and attack you with one of the twelve weapons from the Sealed Castle of Kuza, the Excalibur. Now that Gilgamesh is morphed, go for the steal! He's got a common Genji Helm this time. Keep defending and healing until what turns out to be a common enemy takes care of the fight.

The Excalipoor is an odd weapon. It has 100 Battle Power, yet deals 1 damage? The truth is that the Excalipoor is actually a very weak weapon, dealing 1 damage every hit. However, its power when used with Goblin Punch or when Thrown is the listed 100, so for both you could utilize the weapon. A 100 Battle Power Goblin Punch or even a 200 Battle Power Goblin Punch (with Two-Handed) isn't that powerful, though; when paired with Barehanded to boost Strength, it does become a fair force to be reckoned with; another option would be a Knight with !Blue. The Genji Helm is just a very good helmet that also protects against the Mini and Confuse status ailments.

Continue. On the 13th floor, an unlucky number, does the dark mage Exdeath try to destroy yet another world by breaking its foundations. Its goals are unknown, but the effects of its actions are not. It has caused the deaths and destruction of more things precious than your heart can manage to sum up. It must pay; this must be the end of his conquests; it must be destroyed.
