<a id="s4-38-1"></a>

### 4.38.1. A second prelude; the fight with Antlion

Opponents: Antlion (#286)

You appear outside of Castle Tycoon. The scenery has notably changed; the meteorite is gone, but with a clear path you can no longer travel to the cave you found when trying to get to the Wind Shrine so long ago. But these things don't matter right now; Exdeath is gone and we're back home when we were told we would never be able to return. How? At any rate, Castle Tycoon looks inviting. Let's win some information there.

NOTICE: de-equip Lenna and Faris at this point.

Note that you can walk all you want on the Overworld Map; no enemies here.

The information bit'll have to come later; it seems both Lenna and Faris are swept away by Tycoon's royal staff. A few moments later, both sisters are smack dab in their thrones, dancers are dancing and you can't talk to either of them. Their emotions at this point can only be called a mystery. Krile, however, runs off to lament on the balcony, which isn't odd considering this entire situation is bizarre.

Bartz gets the hots for Faris again. Don't even think about it. She's got some battle scars, dude. If you wanna date Faris, rumor is you'll have to defeat her seven evil ex-boyfriends, and they're ALL pirates.

Before you talk to her, you can go to the left door and enter the King's room which you couldn't enter earlier. Here, you can see his diary, containing the story of the day Sarisa refused to mount Hiryu. If you slept at Castle Tycoon after Galuf left, you have already seen this cutscene and it won't show again. If not, now's the time. The cutscene will only trigger if you already heard the story about Sarisa from Jenica; the old hag can be found in the right wing of the castle. If you never found the treasures here, you can do so now; but a soldier blocks the pathway to where the Diamond Bell, Ashura and Shuriken were stored, so you can't get 'em now.

After you've found Krile on the balcony, you have no choice but to leave with a two-man party.

"Well, things worked out just fine in the end. What a relief! ...But something about the sky seems kind of strange, don't you think? And it's only right above Tycoon..."

"As legend has it, a thousand years ago, the skies over Tycoon were rent asunder."

Before you can really leave, you're rudely informed by the fact a bridge over the river to the south-west is finished. On the Overworld Map, walk to the bridge and cross it (it's what it's there for). To the north lies the Pirate Cave, where you'll find Boko. So you do. He's got a little family too; could it be the female Chocobo from Northern Lake? Meh, not all species are nearing extinction in this game.

...or aren't they?

Anyway, you find yourself on Boko on the Overworld Map. The thing here is that Chocobo's are able to cross rivers. You can get off and enter Pirate Cave, but there's really no point in doing so. There are no enemies either.

Take Boko to Castle Tycoon and past it, going north and west where possible. The party's still going. You'll pass Torna Canal which lies to the north and the peninsula which lies to the south. Eventually, you come across the town of Tule. There's nothing new here for you to do but gather some information. Of special notice is some guy mentioning a 'mutant turtle' has been spotted in the cave to the west. This may be either Ghido or Gil Turtle...let's check it out!

When saying 'no' to the girl at the counter of the Greenhorn's Club, you'll get a lesson in being a Freelancer. Also, the Mime Job is mentioned, which in the pre-GBA versions was the last Job you could obtain.

If you missed the Piano here, make sure to play it. Or if you didn't miss it, you can use it as an excuse to get the girls to dance for you.

When you're done, mount Boko again. Cross the river to find a small passageway in between two mountain ranges. Now, you'll leave the Map. Take a few steps to find yourself within a battle versus the Antlion, a giant insectiod monster that lures foes inside his sand trap to weaken and devour them.

**Level:** 34, HP: 8100, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 20, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Hi-Potion (common) · **Win:** Cottage (always) · **Nullifies:** Earth · **Weakness:** Water · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Old, Sleep, Berserk, Slow · **Attacks:** Battle, !Critical Attack, Digestive Acid, Dischord, Flee

Antlion

After a powerful opponent such as Exdeath, the Antlion can be a surprising annoyance. Since you fight it with only Bartz and Krile, you attack less and your options are limited. Also, Antlion continues to weaken you slowly with a combination of Dischord, Digestive Acid and physical attacks. When Antlion dies, he'll use Flee to rob you of your Cottage.

Cast Berserk on Antlion. And Slow. And Old. And the rest, all status ailments help. Time Slip is grand. But mainly just Berserk, as the status stops Dischord from appearing and prevents Flee, giving you your well-deserved Cottage (and 3000 Gil!). Continuous and wise application of Sleep may also do the trick (Spellblade never misses).

If Berserk from White, using the Power Staff or mixing a Bacchus' Cider (Holy Water + Turtle Shell) isn't an option for some reason, you'll have to rough things out. HP-based attacks and fixed damage attacks disregard level, so you could always rely on those. Holy Breath (Dragon Fang + Holy Water) and Dragon Breath (Dragon Fang x 2) after a Goliath Tonic both work very well, as does 1000 Needles. Aside from that, getting in one or two boosted -aga spells when the caster isn't yet affected by Dischord does some real damage, as do dual Twin Lances or a Thrown Water Scroll.

The fight's ultimately an easy one. After the fight, you'll have to wait a while, try to grab the rope four times to re-enter the surface and find Faris waiting for you.

Faris joined the party!

Know that a bit later in the game you can take Faris to the Pirate Cave for a surprising yet awesome gift; this can't be triggered yet, though. Continue on; there is nowhere you can go but to the cave. The mutant turtle turns out to be of the friendly variety. Ghido explains...

Once upon a time, the earth was one. However, a dreadful evil bearing the name Enuo. Enuo was able to control the Void, the ultimate power, the very antithesis of existence. Though Enuo was defeated, the Void lingered, and the people living on the planet were forced to split the world in two by splitting the crystals in two. The two halves were sent far away from each other across time, dimension and space. In between lies the Interdimensional Rift, where the Void could be sealed away as it could not be destroyed; one cannot undo what isn't. Exdeath's goal was holding control over the Void, and thus control over the world. In order to do this, it needed to gain access to the Void in the first place.

Anyway, it seems Exdeath tricked us. It also seems its plot powers still far surpass that of our heroes, no matter how often we smack its ass in battle. At that moment, the Interdimensional Rift that was sealed by the divided worlds re-appears, no longer bound by its former cage. The Void appears right above Castle Tycoon, just as it did 1000 years ago.

Ghido is a strong warrior, it seems.

"You think I sat around seven centuries munching on pizza?"

At any rate, not strong enough, and with Bartz, Krile and Faris he is blasted out of his refuge to find himself near the Library of the Ancients. Here, the scholars of the Library and the scholars of Surgate Castle have found each other in chaotic times to combine the Sealed Tome.
