<a id="s4-39-2"></a>

### 4.39.2. Preparation for the Pyramid in the Desert of Shifting Sands

Opponents: Sleepy (#135), Triffid (#136), Hedgehog (#137), Python (#138), Shadow (#139), Elm Gigas (#140), Desertpede (#141), Bulette (#142), Slug (#154), Gloom Widow (#155), Mykale (#156)

Container contents: Cottage

Miscellaneous items: Dark Matter (rare drop from Desertpede), Death Sickle (rare Mykale steal), Healing Staff (common steal from Sleepy), Brave Blade OR Chicken Knife

Blue spells: 1000 Needles, Aeroga, Dark Spark, Off-Guard, Vampire

Walking around here may trigger encounters with all sorts of normal-like yet strong critters. Since Overworld enemies generally aren't that interesting, allow me to describe them as a whole...

Sleepies cast Sleep a lot, but have little HP. They have a common Healing Staff for you to steal... not so powerful now, but interesting anyway. You can now Dual-Wield them if you set Equip Rods on a Ninja. So awesome. Triffids attack physically and cast Berserk on themselves. They are the only powerful !Catch here, if you must know. Hedgehogs can be controlled into using 1000 Needles; they'll never use it normally, but they will respond to any !Attack with a

Needle spell (the 50/50 Darkness/Silence one). They don't have the MP for the 1000 Needles attack, so use an Ether if you must. Pythons randomly use Vampire and Entangle when struck by a !Fight command, but they won't have the MP for the Vampire spell. Shadows attack physically, but can be Controlled for Vampire, Off-Guard and Dark Spark. They don't have any MP though, so feed them an Ether if you want to learn anything from them.

Elm Gigas is the most dangerous one here; it may randomly use Aeroga, which deals around 900 damage to a single target. It has a whopping 4170 HP as well, which is quite a lot for a random encounters. Fortunately it's not Heavy, nor are they immune to Break spells or Catoblepas' piercing gaze. In addition, it starts the battle snoozing; Sleep is set! Stick to magical attacks and you should not wake it up before you kill it. You can Control them so you can force Aeroga out of them for you to learn, but note that they won't respond to your commands until you've lifted Sleep from them.

Random note: Elm Gigas is one of two creatures with removable Float! Use the Judgment Staff to get rid of it (or cast Dispel, when later in the game). While the Elm Gigas will retain his immunity to Earth-elemental attacks, it now can be hit by Squirrel and Wild Boars from the !Animals command. Oh, the insight I present thee... Anyway, use Missile, Graviga, Stop and other things of that nature to kill Elm Gigas before he kills a character with Aeroga.

Slugs, Gloom Widows and Mykales won't start appearing until the forests around Moore; the Mykales are interesting because they can teach you Aero, 1000 Needles and Lilluptian Lyric when !Controlled; in addition, they may randomly use Moon Flute on the party. The rarely stolen Death Sickle is a sweet thing; if you got bored waiting for the Harvester to drop one, here's your chance. The Slugs may randomly use Slimer; the Gloom Widow's !Needle attack sets Paralyze. The Slugs are weak to Fire, the Gloom Widows are weak to Water. Ninjas with boosted Magic Power will have a field day in these forests. Level 3 Flare hits all three monsters, and is supremely powerful.

North of the Library of the Ancients lies Castle Surgate! While mainly just filled with confused NPCs, there is a single treasure here you can now collect you couldn't collect earlier. Find the library lady and help her out once more (the books and locations are the same as last time). Follow her, and go down the stairs. Before you took on Exdeath, a purple-robed man was here, talking about Catoblepas. Now that he's gone, check the crate positioned against the wall in the back; it's a Cottage! If you released Lone Wolf, the crate will be EMPTY! This Cottage is not taken into account when your treasure % is given.

**Trivia:** when looking at the left side of the A-C shelf now, Lenna will still

make an appearance.

Even further to the north lies Karnak; again, nothing here but NPCs talking about how the world has changed, and about how Dwarves exist. Queen Karnak is still bed-ridden at the Inn; if you missed the piano here earlier, now's your chance... likewise for the Flame Rod in the barrel on the city wall.

West of the Library lies what once was the Great Forest of Moore. Burned down by Exdeath and being pushed away by the mountains of a rivaling world, the Guardian Tree is about the only thing still standing. The Desert has stopped being annoying on the navigational side; a positive side-effect of the world's decay. It's like a heritage. Before you enter the Pyramid, travel across the desert to find the town of Moore.

In the desert, Bulettes and Desertpedes appear; Bulettes are quite physically evasive. They have a powerful special technique called !Body Blow which is unblockable, ignores Defense and sets Paralyze, so kill it quicky. Desertpedes have relatively strong Quicksand attacks, but you'll only see it when you Confuse or Control them, or Catch one for later Release. They rarely drop Dark Matter, which is grand; kill them easily with Level 5 Death. Aqua Breath deals 800% damage to them since they're Desert creatures.

Here, the townspeople are shocked by the disappearance of the great forest, but they're good-natured enough about it. There is still a piano here if you forgot it earlier. Also, a haunted shed has been unlocked. Go around the Pub and enter the shed on the blind side. Here, there's a hidden passage through the trees even your Thief cannot see.

x x x xxxxx x x x x x x xxx x x x x x x xxxxxxxxx x x x x x x 0

"Think you're brave? Take what's in the crate on the left. If you're a coward, take what's in the one on the right."

The left chest contains the Brave Blade, one of the strongest weapons in the entire game. It's non-elemental and gives a +5 on Strength. However, every time you run from a battle or use !Flee, !Smoke or the Teleport spell to escape, the Battle Power of this weapon decreases by 1. Every time you have run in the past has already affected this weapon, and actions taken after you've obtained the blade will continue to affect it. Note that through !Throw or with Goblin Punch, Battle Power will always be 150 no matter how often you ran.

The right chest contains the Chicken Knife. Its power increases by 1 every two times you run or use !Flee, !Smoke or Teleport, to a maximum of 127. Since the Chicken Knife's damage formula also takes Agility into account, the Chicken Knife turns out to be even more powerful in a normal game than the Brave Blade. Also, fleeing is never a problem anymore. The Chicken Knife gives a +5 on Agility and has a 25 % chance of using !Flee rather than !Attack, escaping the battle. With !Focus, !Rapid Fire, !Dance or !Mug, this will never happen; with !Aim, it still can. Note that through !Throw or with Goblin Punch, Battle Power will always be 1 no matter how often you ran.

I suggest you go for the Brave Blade if you want to feel like a righteous bad-ass and go for the Chicken Knife if you want a truly convenient weapon to have. If you go with the Chicken Knife, make sure to power it up; you can head into the desert and use !Flee until you've maxed out the weapon. If don't want to commit to either camp, the Brave Blade provides a solid Goblin Punch and the Chicken Knife provides a sweet Agility boost.

A Two-Handed Knight with a Brave Blade is simply monstrous at this point, as is about any physical Job with the Chicken Knife (albeit, to a lesser extent).

Time to visit the Pyramid. Maybe we can buy mini-pyramids to decorate our cottages, but let's make sure they're not mini-cursed.
