<a id="s4-39-1"></a>

### 4.39.1. Mission statement

**Location:** The Overworld Map · **Features:** Mana's Paean (Song spell)

Here's the deal. Our mission is twofold. One: Exdeath needs to be stopped. Two: the Void needs to be dealt with. Exdeath has retreated into the Interdimensional Rift where it is slowly learning to master the Void, but according to Ghido we'll never make it to him as Exdeath isn't the only evil creature that is and was. We'll need to harness the power of the 12 Legendary Weapons, the very same that have proven to be able to defeat Enuo.

The book begins to speak...

"After Enuo's defeat, the weapons of legend were sealed within the Castle Kuza. To break the seals, the four tablets must be assembled.

One rests alongside spirits of the past, blessed by soil... One rests within an island shrine, kissed by wind... One rests beneath the ocean's floor, engulfed by flames... One rests beyond the river's torrents, protected by water...

Along with the keys to open the seals - the four tablets - are sealed our servants. If the tablets are moved, our servants will awaken...

The ultimate spells of white and black... The magic of time and space, Meteor... The sea king, Leviathan... and the dragon king, Bahamut...

Present this book unto the gate and the way to the seals will be opened."

When all is said and done, the scholars have a lot of useful information about this brave new world. On the roof of the Library, the right scholar can teach you Mana's Paean, a song that will slowly increase your Magic Power in battle. A paean is a solemn thanksgiving, in this case to the source of mana; in return, this source bestows you with greater arcane might. Make sure to get it now, you won't be able to learn this again at a later date.

If you haven't learned Level 5 Death yet, the Pages are still available in the dungeon part of the Library; you can manipulate your level with Dark Spark if your level isn't right. When you're done here, leave this place.
