<a id="s4-4-1"></a>

### 4.4.1. The Ship Graveyard

Opponents: Skeleton (#12), Carcruthl (#13), Undead Husk (#14), Mindflusher (#15), Siren (#245)

Container contents: 990 Gil, Antidote x 2, Flail, Potion, Phoenix Down x 2, Tent

Miscellaneous items: Bronze Armor (guaranteed (living) Siren drop), Bronze Shield (guaranteed (undead) Siren drop), Elixir (rare Carcruthl drop, rare Undead Husk drop), Flame Scroll (rare Mindflusher drop)

Features: World Map

"A gathering place for ruined and scuttled ships... and a nest for the undead."

Waking up, the situation's looking grim. The uncontrollable pirate ship drifted right into the Ship Graveyard, where bad things happen to good people. Hey, at least you're fully restored from the fight with Karlabos earlier. You can always go below deck to sleep, although Galuf's the only person who gets a bed...

Outside 35 % Skeleton 35 % Skeleton x 3 30 % Carcruthl x 2, Skeleton x 2

Inside first shipwreck, (partly) dry parts 35 % Carcruthl x 2, Skeleton x 2 35 % Skeleton x 3 30 % Skeleton

Submerged shipwrecks 35 % Undead Husk, Skeleton, Carcruthl 35 % Skeleton x 3 23 % Skeleton 6 % Undead Husk

Partly submerged room just with Pitfall 35 % Undead Husk, Mindflusher 35 % Skeleton x 3, Mindflusher 23 % Undead Husk 6 % Mindflusher x 2, Undead Husk

Shipwrecks after Save Point 35 % Mindflusher x 2, Undead Husk 35 % Undead Husk, Skeleton, Carcruthl 30 % Undead Husk x 2

All the enemies you'll face here are Undead! This means that normally curative attacks will damage them, life-restoring spells and items will instantly kill them (unless they're Heavy), they'll almost always be weak to Fire- and Holy- elemental attacks, they will absorb Poison-elemental attacks, they will have a butt-load of status immunities and draining spells will have an inverse effect on them; they'll heal the target and damage the caster. This means the White Cure spell will damage the Undead while the Blue Vampire spell will heal them while damaging its caster.

Skeletons are undead foot-soldiers. They attack using Attack and !Critical Attack, they're weak to Fire-elemental attacks and may rarely drop a Dagger. Daggers should at this point definitely outclass your Broadswords even though the menu indicates they're weaker. Goblin Punch users should stick to Broadswords; Knights that don't use Two-Handed should switch to Daggers where possible.

Carcruthl merely use Attack. They're undead, look spiffy and are weak to Lightning-elemental attacks. That about covers it. They rarely drop Elixirs.

Undead Husks are brutes whose bodies are as empty as their brains. Not only are they undead like all the monsters are in the Ship Graveyard, they're also made of stone; using a Gold Needle on them will instantly dissolve them by means of a self-applied Vanish attack. They rarely drop Elixirs like the Carcruthl, but are weak to Wind-elemental attacks such as Aero. They are the only monster in this game that are incapable of avoiding White spells at all; which seems strange since all White spells you have now are unblockable anyway. It must be a Japanese thing, I dunno.

Mindflusher's !Lick deals normal damage but also adds the Sap status which shaves away your HP while you stare at it. They may randomly drop a Flame Scroll, an item that's completely useless to you at this time.

Monks are great here; if you have one or two characters who can case Cure, you can easily punch your way through this place.

The vertical plank next to the pirate ship leads to a seemingly uninteresting rock. Waiting here for a second reveals two more stones however, opening up a string of rocks leading to a chest containing a Flail. The Flail is one of the few physical weapons for your White Mage. It's weak and White Mages should NEVER have to go without offensive spells to cast, but it's back-row compatible and it gives your White Mage something constructive to do when he or she is out of MP or Silenced. For some moderately decent physical damage on the White Mage (certainly better than you'll ever do in the rest of the game), combine Two- Handed with the Flail. It works.

Track back and continue on to the right. You'll enter another derelict ship which is filled with fog and spider webs. Go down the stairs (there doesn't seem to be anything else to do). Before you pass through the door, the light betrays the existence of a more hidden door which leads to a Tent. Get back and pass through the door, where Faris will make a fuss about his clothes getting wet. An odd vain streak he hasn't shown before, but what needs to be done needs to be done.

Enter the water. There's a little chest you can stand on to get your head above water, but without one of those stressing YOU HAVE THIS MUCH AIR LEFT bars there's little point in doing so. Swim/walk down the stairs. Down here, there's a chest with the classic pirate skull on it; examine it for 990 Gil. Continue to find a split in the road; the above door leads to a room containing a Phoenix Down (descend the stairs and try to maneuver to the chest, it's not that hard) while the other door to more stairs. Continue.

There's a chest here containing a mere Potion, but also some stairs going up. Finally! The water seems to end in this room. To the tile up-left from the stairs exit is a broken piece of wood which collapses underneath you when you stand on it. Don't do it. Exiting gets you to a room filled with old, moldy food, four beds and some chests; the Chosen Warriors declare it to be a safe haven so we can assume it is exactly that. Lenna gets some me-time to go dry her clothes, and the boys are left to do the same. Faris doesn't want to cooperate, Bartz and Galuf shrug it off as nonsense, and finally the reason behind all the oddness is revealed.

If the flowing purple hair, infatuated pirates and fellow Chosen Warriors, attacking Torna Canal monsters and huge chest hadn't already convinced you it was the case, you now learn Faris is a girl. Good gosh. Washed into the hands of the pirates one day, she pretended to be a boy. The amount of questions you probably have at this point is enormous and never answered, so let's accept this glaringly illogical plot twist and continue on. You all rest and get fully restored by it.

The next room features a Save Point that you can use. When you taste sweet, fresh air again you can go to the right or down; to the right is nothing, so let's go down. There's a piece o' ship here with a door which you can ignore if you want, but I really really suggest you don't. Let's get in there.

The first thing you'll see lying around is an object that's just a shade too bright to be part of the scenery; it's a World Map. You'll notice later this is a magical World Map which adapts to your current situation, but we'll get there later. Grab it now. If you miss it here you'll have another chance to pick it up in the future at another location, but why skip it now? Even further down is a storage room with three chests containing two Antidotes and a Phoenix Down. Here, Mindflushers and Undead Husks abound, both of which drop interesting stuff and give 2 to 3 ABP in their formations, so if you want to Job-train, go ahead. Time to go back up.

Continuing, there's what appears to be a dead end with a chest. Opening the chest reveals the remainder of the ship, because that is a logical thing to happen when you open chests. Walk up to the other end of the ship to see a string of stepping stones that's just too perfect to NOT be the exit out of here, so you can go prepare for a boss fight :)
