<a id="s4-4-2"></a>

### 4.4.2. The battle with Siren

Something's not right here. Stella Klauser appears, mother to Bartz, and just as Bartz is about to check up on the situation his body goes limp. King Tycoon his appearance would have been more believable, but his presence in this context is alarming as we already know that Stella passed away at some time in the past.

Strangely enough, Faris seems extremely taken by the appearance of King Tycoon; is there ANY normal thought process going on in that girl's head?

The system falls down a little when the illusion created for Galuf doesn't ring any bells with him; amnesia, remember? Suddenly 'something' floats from the limp bodies of Bartz, Lenna and Faris, which the suddenly appearing Siren declares to be their souls. Bad shit! Galuf resolves the problematic situation by slapping. You'd hate to be married to the guy.

**Level:** 2, HP: 900, MP: 200 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Nothing · **Win:** Bronze Armor · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Paralyze, Confuse, · **Attacks:** Protect, Cure, Libra, Thunder, Blizzard, Silence, Sleep, Haste, Slow

Siren Berserk, Stop, Slow

**Level:** 2, HP: 900, MP: 200 · **Defense:** 12, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Nothing · **Win:** Bronze Shield · **Absorbs:** Poison · **Weakness:** Fire · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy, Undead · **Special Technique:** !Venomous Clasp · **Special Technique Effect:** Adds Poison · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Darkness, Slow, Regen · **Attacks:** Attack, !Venomous Clasp

Siren (Undead)

Siren works like this. She takes three turns, during which she will do this:

**st turn:** 33 % each: Silence, Slow, Haste · **nd turn:** 33 % each: Cure, Blizzard, Libra · **rd turn:** 33 % each: Protect, Sleep, Thunder

Then, she'll turn into her Undead form, which is clearly visible due to the text flashing across the screen and Siren herself turning red. In this state, she'll also take three turns of attacking with either Attack or !Venomous Clasp before returning back to 'normal'.

Siren is pretty much immune to your magical attacks in her normal state, so if nobody needs healing this is where the Flail for the White Mage can come in relative handy. Pound away with your Knights, Monks and Thieves and have your mages...yeah, they're better off attacking too, it's just that they're nowhere near as good as the more physically inclined Jobs. When Siren changes into her Undead form, the fun's starting.

Undead Siren receives incredible Defense so your physical attacks become next to useless. If you want characters without magical abilities to do *some* damage, Potions inflict a constant 50 damage. The Fire spell is obviously the most powerful spell you can cast on U. Siren, but Aero, Cure and Blizzard or Thunder spells also work pretty well (in that order). Note that throwing a Phoenix Down on Undead Siren will NOT kill her. Life-bringing items and spells still kill Undead enemies in this game as it does in every other Final Fantasy game, it's just that the trick doesn't work if the Undead target is also Heavy.

Since the Bronze Armor is an overall better and more expensive item than the Bronze Shield I might just advise you to shoot for defeating Siren in her normal state, but the difference is marginal.

For some trivia, Siren would later make a few appearances as a summon monster, often focusing around setting the Silence status and/or dealing minor damage. She's a bit sexed-up as one of your allies, though, and not quite as Undead and creepy.

When you're done, you're done. It's over! Go do something now, go read a book about airplanes. They can fly and are heavy. Oh yeah, and don't forget to cure possibly Poisoned characters, their HP slowly drops to 1 while you're walking.
