<a id="s4-40-2"></a>

### 4.40.2. The fight with Melusine

Heh.

You'll want to get to the airship, so head east. Walk through the patch of forest to engage in a cutscene. Lenna has escaped the Void, which is awesome news, but the effects of her time there are less then positive and things turn for the worse very quickly. While you are incapacitated by a friend's powers, Exdeath commands the Void to consume the Library of the Ancients, its scholars and Ghido. After Exdeath has returned to the Interdimensional Rift to continue its work on mastering the Void, Hiryu dives down in a kamikaze attack to rescue Lenna from the demon that's possessing her. Success.

Melusine is one of the Eleven of the Rift, Exdeath's elite force of unstoppable demons. Each a soul filled with malice, they were recruited with the promise of a world ruled by demons. Locked away for a 1000 years, their madness, rage and power are overflowing. Eleven Satanic rules of the Earth, Eleven the fool's amount, Eleven the first of the Master numbers...

**Level:** 29/33, HP: 20000, MP: 500 · **Defense:** 90/0, Magic Defense: 0/90 · **Evasion:** 10%/0%, Magic Evasion: 10%/90% · **Steal:** Leather Cap/Leather Shoes/Leather Cap/Leather Armor (rare) · **Win:** Maiden's Kiss (rare) · **Absorbs:** Fire/Ice/Lightning · **Nullifies:** Water, Wind, Earth, Holy, Poison · **Weakness:** Fire/Ice/Lightning · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Sleep, Paralyze, Confuse, Silence, Slow, Stop · **Attacks:** Attack, Firaga, Blizzaga, Thundaga, Entice, Barrier Change

Melusine

Melusine's "thing" is her Barrier Change attack, which calls into existence another form of herself. HP is transferred, but statuses aren't. Elemental properties are swapped around, and there's no set pattern as Melusine will call forth a random other Melusine. Her AI script isn't that difficult; she will simply randomly use physical attacks, use level 5 Black spells or switch to another form.

Melusine has incredible amounts of Defense in all but one of her forms. Her Magic Defense is normally 0, but since she nullifies all elements and she swaps around her reaction to Fire, Ice and Lightning it's difficult to take advantage of that. When her Defense is turned down to 0, her Magic Defense soars to 90, so her 'weakness' becomes physical in that state; in addition to having 0 Defense, so will also become unable to avoid Aerial attacks such as Whips and Bows.

Her first form is weak to Fire-elemental attacks, so if you know what you're doing you can kill her before she even moves to another form. Two-Handed Flametongue Knights are grand; when hitting a weakness, all attacks become barrier-piercing, remember? Boosted Firaga spells also deal incredible amounts of damage, especially when bounced off three characters unto Melusine. With the Brave Blade or the Chicken Knife, you can set Firaga Spellblade effects and watch the damage fly to sickening heights. You can lock Melusine in one weakness by setting Sleep; while her Magic Evasion is sky-high, you can use Sleep Spellblade effects to affect her anyway. You can always check Melusine's form with Libra spells or !Scan. If you detect no elemental weaknesses, this means that Melusine will have 0 Defense, meaning physical attacks are once again a very good option.

The battle is easy if you have what it takes. A combination of Golem and Carbuncle completely shuts down Melusine's offenses, as does all-round application of the Dragon Shielding Mix (Ether + Dragon Fang) combined with Golem. If you focused on physical characters, this is an incredibly nasty battle as you can hardly touch Melusine. The Poison Axe cut through her Defenses nicely; the Gaia Hammer you're now bound to have is more powerful, but the Earthquake attack will be a wasted turn. Non-elemental magical attacks are quite rare, but 1000 Needles and Comet are safe (if relatively weak) bets at all times.

Lenna joined the party...

Use a Cottage to bring back Lenna. In the meantime, while you're traveling to the Sealed Castle of Kuza, Exdeath uses the Void it controls more and more to erase the town of Walse and Castle Walse, the town of Istory, the Moogle Village, and Bartz' hometown, Lix. Bartz throws a hissy fit. Jeesh, he's not thrilled about all the side-quests or anything.
