<a id="s4-40-1"></a>

### 4.40.1. The Pyramid of Moore; the Earth tablet

Opponents: Objet d'Art (#99), Black Warlock (#128), Bandercoeurl (#130), Lamia Queen (#143), Rajiformes (#144), Ushtabi (#145), Archeosaur (#146), Zephyrus (#147), Mummy (#148), Aspis (#149), Mecha Head (#150), The Damned (#151), Grand Mummy (#152), Sekhmet (#153), Steel Fist (#181), Melusine (#287), Gargoyle (#288)

Container contents: 8000 Gil, 9000 Gil, 10000 Gil, 12000 Gil, Crystal Armor, Ice Shield, Cursed Ring, Flame Shield, White Robe, Dark Matter x 6, Elixir x 4, Gaia Hammer, Cottage, Black Robe, Black Garb, Gold Hairpin, Ribbon, Protect Ring

Miscellaneous items: Judgment Staff (rare Black Warlock steal), Power Staff (rare Black Warlock drop), Thief's Gloves (rare steal from Sekhmet), Crystal Armor (rare Sekhmet drop), Lamia's Tiara (rare drop from Lamia Queen), Thornlet (rare steal from Lamia Queen), Dragon Fang (guaranteed Archeosaur drop), Kaiser Knuckles (rare drop from Steel Fist), Elixir (rare Zephyrus drop and rare Zephyrus steal), Twin Lance (rare Objet d'Art steal)

Features: Tablet

Blue spells: 1000 Needles, Off-Guard, Dark Spark, Level 3 Flare, Aqua Breath, Aeroga, Missile, Flame Thrower, ???, Doom

"One rests alongside spirits of the past, blessed by soil..."

As you approach the Pyramid of Moore, the door remains closed. You were warned that the slabs were protected by gargoyles, and sure enough they're here. They seem largely inanimate though. Let this be a lesson to you! Spinster's tales! Bolderdash! Humbug! AN UNDIGESTED BIT OF BEEF, A BLOT OF MUSTARD, A CRUMB OF CHEESE, A FRAGMENT OF AN UNDERDONE POTATO! Also, as you examine the door, the Gargoyles attack you.

**Level:** 33, HP: 5000, MP: 300 · **Defense:** 13, Magic Defense: 12 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 35% · **Steal:** Potion (common), Phoenix Down (rare) · **Win:** Hi-Potion (rare) · **Absorbs:** Holy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, Berserk, · **t Evade:** Aerial · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Transfusion

Gargoyle (x2) Silence, Stop, Slow

These Gargoyles are a nuisance, but not too much. The big thing you need to remember is that if one has fallen and the other is yet to act, the first thing it'll do revive the other one. So you either kill them both simultaneously or you completely screw with their AI script. In the meantime you'll be pelted by physical attacks like it's nobodies business.

This is an easy battle, so I won't insult your intelligence by talking too long about the Gargoyles. I'd rather insult your intelligence by questioning the existence of your academic degrees, lolol. Throw up Golem to stop the physical attacks. Transfusion won't make an appearance except for 1 33 % chance every fifth round, so you should just end the battle before they can use it. Flash can stop their physical onslaught. If you're not sure you can take them out with MT attacks, you could set Berserk on one and kill the other; they keep coming back because they revive eachother, see. Sleep is a great way of stopping their meddlesome attempts at killing you.

Like I said, either use MT attacks or use Berserk. Titan's Gaia's Wrath (whose is it anyway?) is grand, as are MT -aga spells from the !Black selection. Boost to your heart's content if you opt for this route, and keep your ST attacks in check. Level 3 Flare works like a charm. Expect heavier pounding if you utilize Berserk (you may even scoff at the White magic skillset and use a Power Staff instead), but with Flash and Golem, there's still no need to worry at all. Cheap? Sure, but you're the Light Warriors on a mission to save the world. Being successful is just very important to us all.

When the guardian gargoyles have fallen and we have spent a page from the Sealed Tomb, we may enter into that most ancient of places, the Pyramid of Moore. This is quite a long dungeon, so bring plenty of items. The Gold Hairpin for a Mage is a good idea, his or her MP will be is serious peril of reaching 0 otherwise.

Notice: after this dungeon and some other thing, your party will be once again filled to the maximum of four. Some players like to keep their levels about equal, or would rather clear the upcoming dungeon with four characters rather than three to not miss out on ABP on that fourth party member. It is perfectly doable to flee from every battle in the pyramid, avoid all chests (or at least those with guardians), fill your team back up to four characters and return here. You'll be forced to face a few Aspis snakes, it is quite difficult to avoid all roaming Mecha Heads and there's the Mummy x3 formation that you'll be forced to take on, but that's it! A Thief with !Flee will come first every battle, it you're gone before the enemy'll know what happened. If you want to preserve your Brave Blade, it's obviously not an option.

First floor: 35 % Lamia Queen x 2 35 % Lamia Queen 30 % Ushabti x 6

Third floor: 58 % Zephyrus (Dhorme Chimera, Ronkan Knight) 35 % Lamia Queen, Rajiformes 6 % Zephyrus (Adamantine Golem, Bio Soldier)

Fifth floor:

**35 % Sekhmet > Queen Lamia**

35 % Queen Lamia

30 % Zephyrus (Ziggurat Gigas, Tunneller)

**Note:** once you've defeated Sekhmet once, the Queen Lamia formation will appear

70 % of the time

Sixth floor: 35 % Rajiformes, Ushabti, Lamia Queen 35 % Lamia Queen, Rajiformes 23 % Zephyrus (Adamantine Golem, Bio Soldier) 6 % Zephyrus (Dhorme Chimera, Ronkan Knight)

Seventh floor: 35 % Ushabti, Ushabti, Ushabti, Lamia Queen 35 % Zephyrus (Adamantine Golem, Bio Soldier) 23 % Lamia Queen 6 % Ushabti x 6

Eighth floor: 35 % Lamia Queen, Lamia Queen, Ushabti, Ushabti 35 % Zephyrus (Ziggurat Gigas, Tunneller) 23 % Lamia Queen, Lamia Queen 6 % Ushabti x 6

I'll give a quick yet comprehensive lecture on the opponents here. Since this is a pyramid, it's very old. All monsters therefore are either Undead or unliving to begin with; all other residents long-since passed away (this with the exception of its one unique inhabitant, the mystic Sekhmet). The abundant Undead Lamia Queens are perhaps the most interesting as they rarely drop Lamia's Tiaras, headgear you haven't seen since the Lonka Ruins. They can use 1000 Needles randomly every second turn, so make sure to learn it if your Blue Mages still haven't. In addition, you can steal rare Thornlets from them. They are quite useless, but rare all the same. The Undead Rajiformes has little to offer except for needless violence and a weakness to Lightning- elemental attacks, and the living Ushabti constructs can use both Dark Spark and Off-Guard, though you'll have to feed them an Ether before they can actually use it.

The most interesting encounter you can have is one with a Zephyrus, a small fairy that summons other creatures to fight for her. These creatures can be either an Adamantine Golem, a Bio Soldier, a Ziggurat Gigas or a Tunneller, but a single Zephyrus can only summon two out of those four (this depends on the possible monster formations for a given floor). They are all different monsters than the ones you fought earlier. The only interesting difference besides improved toughness is the fact that the Tunneller as summoned by Zephyrus may randomly use Level 3 Flare. Whenever a monster is fighting for the Zephyrus, she will try her best to buff the creature with recovery and other helpful magic. Zephyrus are remarkably sturdy given their frail build and tend to evade a lot of your blows, but Stop and Paralyze can cripple her quickly. It is almost impossible to manually run from her, so if you're not interested in a fight you'll have to use !Flee, !Smoke or Teleport spells. Note that none of the four creatures she may conjure add to your Bestiary.

The Requiem Song is a must-have for the Pyramid of Moore, as all Lamia Queens, Rajiformes and all the Damned, Aspis and Archeosaurus monsters will suffer greatly from its effects. Back !Sing up with high Magic Power. A second caster is nice to have to deal MT Lightning-elemental damage to the Ushabti enemies, but a Lightning Scroll will deal sufficient damage to one-shot them all every encounter. Brave Blade wielders and Chicken Knife users, when powered up, will deal great amounts of damage. The Pyramid of Moore can be a repetitive dungeon, but it's not a hard one when you keep an eye out for your HP.

When you enter the Pyramid, there are two paths open to you to the left. You'll want to take the left-most one first. Go up to find spikes popping up from the floor. These damage tiles deal 1/24 maximum HP damage to your party and add the Poison status, even to those wearing the Bone Mail! The Float status and the Light Step ability circumvent this, but there's no need to resort to these tactics. The are three buttons on the wall; pressing the left-most one and the right-most one once will create a path for you through the spikes.

Your path will now be blocked by a sandstream. You have no choice but to cross its path and be swept away. Below lies a chest guarded by four The Damned.

These opponents are durable and powerful, but they do nothing but physical attacks which is a blessing. They're Undead like so many creatures in this place, so Requiem hurts them a lot, if not outright killing them. They can teach you the Blue Off-Guard and Doom spells; use !Control, feed the slave an Ether, let it cast the spell you want. For your troubles you'll get another Ice Shield. Across your path slither two Aspis snakes.

Go up and follow the path. You'll walk past the sandstream, now safely on the other side. On the 2nd Floor, there are a few hidden passages your Thief can spot. Two Aspis snakes are released here. When you leave this place, you'll find a standing sarcophagus. When you stand in front of it, it will open and out walk the Grand Mummy.

The Grand Mummy has 6000 HP and uses physical attacks and Dancehall Daze, an attack that sets Sleep. He's weak to Fire-elemental attacks and isn't Heavy, so he's really not that much of a pain to take down. A single boosted Firaga spell does the trick, and a Two-Handed Flametonque Knight deals a lot of damage as well. About the same as a Two-Handed Brave Blade Knight, tee-hee. If you came back here with Apollos Harp, it deals great amounts of damage as well. You can easily keep the thing at bay in the meantime with !Flirt, though the implications of that act may be a tad to grotesque for your taste.

When you're done, you can grab a Cursed Ring from a chest within the sarcophagus. It's defensive properties are awesome, but it gives the wearer a Countdown in battle. For random encounters, this shouldn't be a problem, and equipping the Cursed Ring is actually a fairly good idea at this point if you ask me. If you carry around any Bards or Dancers, frail as they are, a Cursed Ring can really help them out here. For longer battles though, the status may pose a problem. Now, track back to the entrance. Now you're here, there's always the option of quickly leaving for a Cottage and Save.

Return and take the right path. Your path will be clear to you. You'll encounter two more Aspis snakes on the 2nd Floor. The second floor is, by the way, devoid of random encounters. On the 3rd Floor are three chests you can grab, all protected by monsters. The left one contains a Flame Shield and is guarded by The Damned x 4, the middle one contains a Dark Matter and is also guarded by The Damned x 4, and the right one contains a White Robe and is guarded by an Archeosaur (common) or an Archeosaur and two Ushabti (rare).

The Archeosaur has 9960 HP, can use physical attacks, !Claw (sets Poison), Poison Breath and Zombie Breath. The thing is Heavy, a Dragon and Undead, so... Boosted Firaga spells, Firaga spellblade effects and such are a good idea. If you returned here after picking up Lenna and some other stuff, know that the Apollo's Harp deals great amounts of damage to the Archeosaur as well. You can even !Control the Archeosaur, which is a great idea; Archeosaurea don't use Zombie Breath until the fourth turn, but it's best to make sure you never see it appear at all. You can learn Level 3 Flare from him with the tested Control/Reflect combo one so often can apply to learn Level 3 Flare. The undead dragon will always drop a Dragon Fang post-scuffle, so that's a bonus.

The White Robe is awesome. Vitality and Magic Power + 3, increased defenses and 20 % Magic Block. Wear it, brothers and sisters. Note that Stamina increase on equipment really doesn't do much; it doesn't influence HP, but it does boost Regen healing.

To the right, you can see a stairway turning light and turning dark again. When light, you'll slip off the stairs into the spikes, which like the ones you saw earlier deal damage and poison you. Float and Light Step allow you to circumvent the damage, but you'll slip off the stairway regardless.

On the 4th Floor, Mecha Heads roam the place rather than random encounters. I suggest you clear out the room first. There's a total of 6 Mecha Heads (and two Aspis that are released in the meantime).

Mecha Heads are machines that employ the standard machine attacks: Flame Thrower and Missile, but also, Wave Cannon, Mustard Bomb and Reverse Polarity. When any of your character use !Jump, the Mecha Head will force the character to land with Interceptor Rocket. No special effects occur when you do manage to land with Jump, so why Mecha Head takes special precaution to one of the weaker attacks you can use at this point is beyond me.

Lacking a Heavy nature and being weak to Lightning-elemental attacks opens up the possibility to take down Mecha Head with Thundaga Spellblade effects. Boosted Thundaga spells also get the job done. Have a character Control the Mecha Head, set up Thundaga Spellblade when he's not looking and strike from behind (have the Mecha Head use ??? on himself). Failsafe strategy! Without Control, you'll just have to absorb a few attacks; Stop works, so Stop and Romeo's Ballad both help out. Thundaga cast by a Black Mage or by someone else will just be devastating by itself, so you don't need to prepare if you don't want to.

Anyway, when all is clear, go to the far left. Push a button to remove the spikes leading up to the chest and release two Aspis. Kill them and open the chest, which is guarded by an Archeosaur. It contains a Black Robe, which is pretty much the best Robe in the Pre-GBA games. It's like the White Robe, only doesn't invest in the useless Stamina department and boosts Magic Power by a higher margin.

There are two sarcophagus' in the room. The two chests around the right sarcophagus contain Elixirs. Opening the right sarcophagus releases a mummy. You can fight it if you want. They're easy as long as you attack them simultaneously; when alone, a Mummy may use Danse Macabre, which sets Zombie to a single character which just plain sucks. Past the fight lies a chest with a Thornlet, giving you the third and last piece of "evil" equipment. The Thornlet grants the best Defense of the game and it gives an immunity to Sleep, though it gives the wearer an inherent Sap status. The thing's a bad idea.

The other sarcophagus takes you further in, past another Mummy x 3 formation. There's a Save Point here.

**Level:** 41, HP: 6000, MP: 0 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 5 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 20% · **Steal:** Thief's Gloves (rare), Hi-Potion (common) · **Win:** Crystal Armor (rare) · **Special Technique:** !Sling · **Special Technique Effect:** Adds Darkness · **Creature:** Humanoid, Magic Beast, Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Old, Paralyze, Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Slow, · **Attacks:** Attack, !Sling

Sekhmet Stop

On the 5th floor doth Sekhmet appear, one of the Brothers (though Sekhmet the Egyption Goddess he's named for was, y'know a goddess). He's a formidable warrior, and once you defeat him he won't appear again. The trick here, however, is not defeating him until you really want to. He has a rare Thief's Gloves steal, and by running away after you get it you can get as many as you like. You'll need to use Return as he also has a common steal (Hi-Potion). Obviously running is not an option for you if you went with the Brave Blade, but sucks to be you then. Naw, just kidding: the Catch ability works on him, and when caught he won't set the bit. In other words, Steal until you get the Thief's Gloves (use Return), then reduce him to 3000 HP or lower and Catch him. Get rid of Sekhmet on another random encounter, as his !Release is (Strong) Attack and it's capable of killing himself in a single blow.

Sekhmet is quite the brawler in the meantime, so don't underestimate him. Darkness and Confuse are two handy status ailments to set on him, and he can be Paralyzed or Stopped (the former with a whip too, as he's got a Magic Beast nature so the Beast Killer is a beast killer). At level 41, a combo of Dark Spark and Level 5 Death will net you victory as well.

"You may have defeated me, but my brother in the tower will - gahhh!"

For fun, Catch Sekhmet and !Release him later versus his brother :p

On this floor, you may also encounter the Zephyrus that summons Ziggurat Gigas' and Tunnellers. These Tunnellers may use Level 3 Flare with which they deal around 1000 damage. Halved by Shell, this is the first and somewhat safe method of learning the Blue spell without dying from it or mucking about with complicated !Mix potions and Controlled monsters.

There are three paths you can take here. Go up to find two chests. The left one contains a Dark Matter guarded by The Damned x 4. The right one contains a Crystal Armor guarded by Objet d'Art x 5. Go back. There's a hidden passage here that you can spot with Find Passages. You'll want to equip it temporarily to see where you're going. There's only one chest you can reach this way. The chest contains a Black Garb, improved armor for your Clothes character(s). The chest is guarded by either:

Bandercoeurl x 2, Black Warlock or Steel Fist x 3

You'll want to fight the latter, as even if you still really want a Judgment Staff, you can get one later. The Steel Fists are powerful physical warriors who counter every Attack command with !Air Fist, which sets Old and Sap. When a Steel Fist is alone, it will display the message "Focusing energy..." and use the powerful (Strong) Attack the following turn which will kill a character. If you're really lucky, you get to take some Kaiser Knuckles with you after the fight, which boosts Barehanded attacks. They have NO status immunities, so setting Toad, Petrify or Death takes care of them easily enough. Their Magic Evasion however is very high, so use !Spellblade or !Mix potions. They cannot avoid Aerial attacks, so Whips and Bows will always strike true.

Barehanded punches are normally based off your Level and Battle Power. However, with Kaiser Knuckles the Battle Power is inherently boosted by 50, making Barehanded punches nice enough again. In addition, they boost Strength by 5 and give more Defense than other Accessories (except for the Genji Gloves and Cursed Ring). This is really great time for a Monk; Berserk really boosts the damage.

Now, climb the stairway you have yet to explore.

On the 6th Floor, multiple sandstreams appear, but there are buttons within reach to stop them. However, without a running sandstream you can't enter the hole which leads you to some treasure chests. The first sandstream takes you to a chest with a Dark Matter guarded by The Damned x 4. Get the chest and head back. The second button stops the second sandstream, which would have taken you to the Black Garb chest you picked up earlier. Next to the second button is a door. Enter the door to find two buttons. The right one is the wrong one (oh, irony!); it makes the wall throw you in the pit, onto the first sandstream and further down. The left one makes the wall retreat to make way for four chests. The two to the right contain 8000 and 9000 Gil; the two left ones contain Dark Matters. Both are guarded by The Damned x 4. Anyway, the third sandstream gives you nothing, so simply stop it and traverse it.

The 7th Floor contains more treasure, though you'll have to work for it. Pass up on the stairway and enter the left door. With Find Passages, you'll discover a long hidden passage which takes you to a total of three chests: a Gaia Hammer (guarded by The Damned x 4), 10000 Gil and a Cottage. Now, get up the stairway.

The tiles on the 8th floor switch around. Stand a while to observe which tiles are 'safe' (which never disappear). If you drop down, you'll be able to open a chest containing an Elixir. You'll want to fall at least once for the treasure. The three chests in the room exist out of a Gold Hairpin, a Ribbon and Protect Ring. Furthermore, you'll want to traverse the tiles to the right first. You'll be able to open two chests. Dark Matter (The Damned) and 12000 Gil. Return to the main room and exit on the left side. The two chests here contain an Elixir and a last Dark Matter guarded by The Damned x 4.

On the stairway to the door in the middle, the light tiles slide you down. Take care. On the 8th Floor, you'll able to finally obtain one of the four tablets. You'll taken to the top of the Pyramid, where the Dragon King Bahamut will rise beneath the peninsula where you left the airship to warp to Galuf's world. Bahamut is the most powerful summon spell in the game; sadly, it appears you'll still have to seek him out before you'll be able to call him forth in battle. The airship also floats in your direction. Good news all around!

....surprised there's no boss, aren't you?
