<a id="s4-42-1"></a>

### 4.42.1. The Phantom Village

Opponents: Weresnake (#95), Kornago (#86), Cursed Being (#97), Slug (#154), Gloom Widow (#155), Mykale (#156)

Container contents: Thief Knife

Miscellaneous items: Mirage Vest

Features: Piano

In Crescent, you heard about villages appearing in the forest. Time to investigate, it's not like we've got anything going on at the moment except for that saving-the-world thing and the recent departure of all that we hold dear. At our destination, we're going to go on an unholy shopping spree that dwarves even our worst nightmares we have about taking our girlfriends into town; best be prepared. If you want more Gil, I'd advise you to sail around in the lake near Crescent, where Rukh enemies give you 5000 Gil and have a rare Murasame for you to Steal and Sea Devils give 3000 Gil a kill and have a rare Defender. Rukhs succumb to Sleep/Time Slip, Sea Devils can be quickly dispatched by Odin or Thundaga spells.

Grassland and forests near Crescent 35 % Mykale, Slug x3 35 % Mykale, Gloom Widow, Slug 30 % Mykale x2

Forests around the Phantom Village 35 % Cursed Being x2, Weresnake, Kornago 35 % Kornago x3 23 % Cursed Being, Kornago x2 6 % Cursed Being x2, Weresnake, Kornago

Kornago From Crescent, follow the streak of land to the south-west. The third patch of forest is the one we want. Walk around, and about half of the battles you encounter won't be a battle at all; it'll take you straight into the Phantom Village, a town that was sealed - accidentally - within the Interdimensional Rift together with the Void and all the vile demons a 1000 years ago. Today's lesson; when you're immortal, you talk like a douchebag...

This city is littered with hidden passages that you'll only be able to see with the Passages support ability present. I'll take you through all its features. First, find the Armor Shop.

- **Armor Shop 1:**
  - Crystal Shield      2500 Gil
  - Crystal Helm       10500 Gil
  - Black Cowl          6500 Gil
  - Circlet             4500 Gil
  - Crystal Armor      12000 Gil
  - Black Garb          9000 Gil
  - Black Robe          8000 Gil
  - White Robe          8000 Gil
- **All straightforward stuff, really. This town features the last shops where**
  - you'll get better equipment, so make it count. You should have some Heavy Armor
  - that's equal to what's sold here. Black Robes are better than White Robes. The
  - Circlet is pretty much the first helmet for Mages that can best the Lamia's
  - Tiara; it gives as much Magic Power boosting and has quite a lot more Defense
  - than the Tiara.

The crate on the shop can be examined to open a path to the second Armor Shop.

- **Armor Shop 2:**
  - Hermes Sandals     50000 Gil
  - Angel Ring         50000 Gil
  - Flame Ring         50000 Gil
  - Coral Ring         50000 Gil
  - Lamia's Tiara       2500 Gil
  - Angel Robe          3000 Gil
  - If you stole everything you could've stolen so far, you have all the Angel and
  - Flame Rings you could ever use. In addition, you don't have a lot of use for
  - Coral Rings in the near future (though you'll want four end-game). Lamia's
  - Tiara can be found in the Pyramid of Moore, the Angel Robe is largely inferior
  - to something like the Black Robe. No, the grand item here is the Hermes
  - Sandals. What do they do? They grant the wearer inherent Haste, and this tidbit
  - makes them the best accessories in the game.

Protect Rings are awesome as all-round protective accessories. When the boss fight in question features certain elemental attacks, you probably want to resort to Flame or Coral Rings. For some characters, a Thief's Gloves, Kornago Gourd or Kaiser Knuckles is needed for what you want to do. But the Hermes Sandals, in my humble opinion, are what you should be wearing when you don't have a specific reason to be wearing something specific. They allow you take twice as many turns. You don't defend as well as you could be doing, but you absorb far fewer hits, can react faster to a surprise attack and when a character with Hermes Sandals is killed, they'll still have Haste when revived, something Hastega can't do for you. Finally, these miracle shoes make the wearer immune to Slow, Stop, Paralyze and Sleep. So good.

Of course, for boss battles it's a viable strategy to take them off and equip Angel Rings or Protect Rings because you know you're going to cast Hastega; if dying is improbable, it's worth considering.

...anyway, if you have the Gil, buy four.

Now, leave the Armor Shop and find the Weapon Shop.

- **Weapon Shop 1:**
  - Flametonque        10000 Gil
  - Icebrand           11000 Gil
  - Gaia Hammer        12800 Gil
  - Morning Star        7800 Gil
  - Rune Bow           10000 Gil
  - Kiku-ichimonji     14800 Gil
  - Partisan           10200 Gil
  - New items include the Rune Bow and the Kiku-ichimonji. The former is useless.
  - Very, very useless. It's a Bow that sets Silence 1/3 if the time. And deals NO
  - DAMAMGE. Also, you can wield it in one hand? The Kiku is a stronger Katana than
  - the Osafune. If you picked up the Masamune earlier, or if you stole a Murasame
  - from a Rukh you can find on the oceans, this is useless to you. If not, grab
  - one. There's no specific reason you should buy anything else here.

- **Magic Shop 1:**
  - Mini                 300 Gil
  - Toad                 300 Gil
  - Speed                 30 Gil
  - Float                300 Gil
  - Teleport             600 Gil
  - Chocobo              300 Gil
  - Sylph                350 Gil
  - Remora               250 Gil
  - Presto, all the spells you could've found somewhere and could never buy in a
- **shop. This except the elementary summon spells, which you can no longer**
  - purchase in Walse (since it's gone). Around the back is where the good stuff's

- **Magic Shop 2:**
  - Arise              10000 Gil
  - Dispel             10000 Gil
  - Death              10000 Gil
  - Osmose             10000 Gil
  - Quick              10000 Gil
  - Banish             10000 Gil
  - Some sweet moves are added to your arsenal. They're from the sixth and last
  - level of the Black, White and Time schools of magic, how could they not be
  - awesome? Arise recovers a KO'd character with full HP while Dispel removes all
  - positive magic effects from a target; you already had this spell at your
  - disposal if you had a Judgment Staff, but here it is legit. Death simply sets
  - Death on a single target while Osmose drains MP. Banish can instantly destroy
  - a non-Heavy target, but its hit rate isn't too hot. Its fluff indicates that
  - targets Banished are sent to the Interdimensional Rift, so that's something
  - fun. Quick is crazy; it sets the character casting it in some sort of time hole,
  - giving him or her two turns while the rest of the battlefield takes no action.
  - It's real great but also crazy expensive on MP; 99 MP plus two spells (or five
  - with !Dualcast) absolutely destroys your MP reserve. It is likely Gil is running
  - low now; the only truly useful spell you won't want to miss is Arise.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Hi-Potion            360 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil

- **The item shop owners here don't believe in Cottages; they've been stuck in the**
  - same town frozen in time for a 1000 years; camping gear outlets have really
  - suffered from it financially. They do, however, sell Elixirs are the downright
  - ridiculous prize of 50000 Gil. You can buy 833 Maiden's Kisses with 50000 Gil.
  - What'd you rather have, a refill on your HP and MP or enough booty for a
  - lifetime at your every convenience?

Find the hidden entrance to the Pub on the back side which'll get you after the bar. One of the barrels contains a Thief Knife, a Knife with a curved blade that uses !Mug instead of !Attack half of the time. You'll have to corner the bartender to get it. Leave using the stairs. The Thief Knife follows the same logic as the Chicken Knife in that it will not use !Mug with !Store, !Jump, !Dance.

Here, you'll encounter a challenge; travel around the world with Boko and obtain a fabulous price. The price in question is a Mirage Vest, some Clothes which is a bit less defensive than the Black Garb but gives the wearer a single Image at the start of every battle, making him or her evade any single physical attack which comes his or her way. It's very awesome, so I suggest you take the tour. I'll talk about the tour later.

Continue. A townsman mentions there's a piano here somewhere. You walk past a pot containing Life of a Recovery Spring. After this room, you'll find yourself in a tunnel under the Phantom Village. To the right is a door that opens into the Interdimensional Rift which is blown shut every time you open it. To the far right is a stairway which leads you to the second Weapon Shop.

- **Weapon Shop 2:**
  - Fuma Shuriken      25000 Gil
  - Shuriken            2500 Gil
  - Twin Lance         10800 Gil
  - Moonring Blade      1100 Gil
  - Flame Scroll         200 Gil
  - Water Scroll         200 Gil
  - Lightning Scroll     200 Gil
  - Ninja stuff. The only thing you could take from this list is another Twin
  - Lance if you were lazy in the face of your forefathers. And Objet d'Arts, lazy
  - in their face too.

Head back into the tunnel, but instead go to the far left. Rather than hitting a wall, there's a hidden passage. You can use your Thieves to see it. Ignore the stairway you encounter for now, just push on until you reach the eight and final piano. Sitting on your stool, you now play the opening of Arabesque number one from Debussy's Deux Arabesques.

"You have mastered the piano!!! All others quake in fear at your superhuman keyboard manipulation skill!"

Get your ass to the stairway you passed up earlier. Here, you can catch the Black Chocobo! Grab it, you'll need it later to enter an area you can't access by any other means.

Note: you can land the Black Chocobo in the middle of the forest west of the Desert of the Shifting Sands, the forest that once was the Great Forest of Moore. This prevents you from ever mounting the Chocobo ever again. This can lock up your progress in the worst case and prevent you from ever reaching certain area's in a mildly less bad situation. Bad idea, don't do it.

If you want to, you can fly the Black Chocobo to the great desert to the north-east. Find the forest and roam around the sands. If you encounter a Landcrawler, know that you can steal a rare Defender Knightsword from him.

Return to Crescent and visit the Bard there. Play Debussy's most famous arabesque for the good man on his piano, and amaze the everlastin' coocoo out of him. The Hero's Rime will increase your level during battle. Well, not really. It just increases your level for purposes of damage calculation, but your effective level for purposes of Goblin Punch, Level # Blue spells and the like will remain the same, unlike levels gained through Hero Cocktails and such.

Finally, fly the Airship to Boko. If you tour around the world, meet up with the Airship again and fly back to the Phantom Village, you'll get your Mirage Vest. Your tour will follow the following places:

Travel north-west 'til you reach Karnak, then go south to the best of your ability until you see Surgate Castle. Further south lies Quelb; the townswolves here have little interesting to say. Go south even further 'til you see Bal Castle, then turn to the east for a bit until you can get between the mountains to travel along the thin strip of land that connects the continent with Crescent Island. Pass Crescent and go north until you reach the hole in the earth that once was Tycoon Castle. From here, find Ghido's former cave again; Ta-da! You have now traveled across the world! Go take the airship to collect your spoils in the Phantom Village.

But there is one more thing you must do for me first.

Take Boko to Istory Falls. Go Eastwards now, past Tule, up past the Sealed Castle, past Regole, all the way west until you encounter a collection of connected rivers. Enter these rivers and scout until you find the waterfall. Just behind the waterfall on the Map, in the middle, you enter the place. Take one step forward to find the Magic Lamp. Details on this wondrous item can be found in section 8.3.1. It's a very useful item, so make sure to swing by and grab it.
