<a id="s4-43-1"></a>

### 4.43.1. The Island Shrine; the Wind tablet

Opponents: Prototype (#56), Mecha Head (#150), The Damned (#151), Executor (#157), Oiseaurare (#158), Shadow Dancer (#159), Numb Blade (#160), Tot Aevis (#161), Covert (-), Pantera (-), Wendigo (#289)

Container contents: 9000 Gil, 12000 Gil, Beast Killer, Circlet, Crystal Helm, Dark Matter, Dragon Fang, Elixir, Ether x 2, Hi-Potion, Iron Draft, Protect Ring, Rising Sun

Miscellaneous items: Mirage Vest (rare Oiseaurare steal), Dancing Dagger (rare Shadow Dancer steal), Ice Shield (rare Numb Blade steal), Aevis Killer (common Tot Aevis steal, rare Tot Aevis drop)

Features: Tablet

Spells: Level 2 Old, Level 3 Flare, Level 4 Graviga, Level 5 Death, Doom, Off-Guard, ???, Missile, Flame Thrower, Self-Destruct, Mind Blast

"One rests within an island shrine, kissed by wind..."

In the middle of the World Map there's a large sea. On the southern edge, you can see an island which turns out to have appeared right in the middle of the Big Bridge. The Island Shrine existed earlier, but surrounded by mountains you had no way to enter it. Now, the path is open.

Guarding the doorway are two Gargoyles. You've fought them earlier, so you know how to deal with them. Remember: Yes to Berserk, no to Holy! Excalibur and the Holy Lance are out. With Syldra at your side, Faris' old buddy is without a doubt the easiest way of clearing out the battlefield against these grey guardians; boosted by Air Knives, Magus Rod or possibly even Wind Slash or Rune Chime, the post-mortem plesiosaurus deals great amounts of damage.

All rooms leading to first pipe and switch room: 35 % Executor 35 % Executor x 3 23 % Oiseaurare x 2 6 % Tot Aevis

Rooms the pipes lead to: 35 % Shadow Dancer 35 % Executor 23 % Tot Aevis 6 % Oiseaurare x 5

2nd Floor and 4th Floor: 35 % Shadow Dancer, Executor, Oiseaurare 35 % The Damned, Oiseaurare 23 % Oiseaurare x 5 6 % Tot Aevis

3rd Floor: 35 % Oiseaurare x 2 35 % Executor x 3, Oiseaurare 23 % Executor 6 % Tot Aevis

5th Floor and 7th Floor: 35 % Numb Blade x 2 35 % Shadow Dancer, Executor, Oiseaurare 23 % Tot Aevis 6 % Oiseaurare x 5

The Damned hid in Pyramid of Moore chests all the freaking time, but they're loose now. What's the deal with The Damned, anyway? They went to Harvard. They practice law in prestigious New York firms. They're undead pests, vulnerable to Level 4 Graviga. All this is common knowledge. But deep inside, what really makes them tick?

Executor enemies will use every level-based Blue spell, ranging from Lv. 5 Death, Lv. 4 Graviga and Lv. 3 Flare to Lv. 2 Old. The Flare variant was slightly problematic to obtain earlier, so you may want to learn it here. All these spells can be Reflected, so that's a good way to defend yourselves if you find your team vulnerable to the Death or Flare attacks. Level 3 Flare itself is a great way to get rid of Executors if you want to give them a bun out of their own oven. If you want to avoid death at all costs, it is possible to learn Lv. 5 Death here by having only one character without Reflect Rings, and having that character equipped with the Bone Mail. Lv. 5 Death, provided this character has a suitable level, will only heal the character.

Oiseaurare is the source for Mirage Vests, as you can rarely Steal one from these enemies. They may appear in large large numbers, so you should have no shortage of tries. Mirage Vests are great in combination with Hermes Sandals, as you'll end fights before the Image status can be challenged twice. "Oiseau rare" is french for 'rare bird'. Considering Oiseaurare is neither a bird nor infrequent in the slightest, this is a case of dadaist humor not often found in Japanese video games. They can cast Confuse spells on the first turn; Lamia's Tiara, Ribbons, the Genji Helm and Bone Mail protect you from auto-mutilation.

The Mirage Vest sets a one-time Image status to the wearer. The Blink spell and the Ninja's !Image action ability both set 2; the Mirage Vest just sets one. In quick battles such as random encounters, they grant physical immunity to some extent; they battle'll likely end before a character is hit twice. In longer battles, a bug may be exploited; Mirage Vest's Image status is re-loaded every time equipment's switched in-battle; send a Thief's dagger from the Right to the Left Hand, the Image is back. Try it out, amaze your friends! Note that by switching equipment in-battle, you also lose the powers of Resist Fire, Ice, Lightning, Poison, Dragon Shield and Elemental Power. Nobody cares!

iOS/Android: The reloading of the Image status upon tinkering with equipment is fixed in this version. In addition, the Resist (element), Elemental Power and Dragon Shield will also remain.

**Level:** 47, HP: 33090, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 60% · **Steal:** Ether (rare), Aevis Killer (common) · **Win:** Aevis Killer (rare) · **Absorbs:** Wind · **Nullifies:** Earth · **Status:** (Always) Float · **Creature:** Heavy, Aevis · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Confuse, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Beak, Breath Wing

Tot Aevis

Tot Aevis is a fatass. It has 33090 HP, and is both Heavy and protected from Death attacks. It has no elemental weaknesses, but absorbs Wind. You will be fighting these things for a while. As a common steal, it has the Aevis Killer Bow, which always scores a Critical Hit on the Aevis type (big birds). Why would a big bird have its own death warrant with it? The questions of life are hard questions to answer indeed. Tot Aevis may set Petrify with Beak, attack physically and use Breath Wing. Since Tot Aevis strikes hard, Golem is a great way of keeping you Not-Death, the preferred state. As you can see the Tot Aevis is vulnerable to the Confuse status, but don't inflict it since Breath Wing heals Tot Aevis for 8272 HP when turned on itself. When you're done, you GET NOTHING. You LOSE. GOOD DAY, SIR. Except possibly another Aevis Killer. For this reason, it is entirely understandable if you just run from these birds.

The Aevis Killer is far more powerful than the Hayate Bow, and is a decent alternative to Yoichi's Bow seeing as how Tot Aevis enemies appear here and are such a humongous drag. Aevis Killers suffer no abnormal miss chance, so setting Berserk with this Bow will not make it miss. That's a good thing to know.

Shadow Dancers will attack physically, but may also use Dancehall Daze to inflict Sleep on a single target. They have a rare Dancing Dagger for stealing. There is no reason why you should want one, but they're fun and you had only one so far.

Numb Blade samurai have a rare Ice Shield for stealing! They're great in Knight Single Job Challenges, help out against the boss fight of this place and are generally good to have. Now that the exciting stuff is out of the way, the Dumb Blade sets Paralyze with !Mineuchi. See! The !Mineuchi which the Samurai Job learns after 10 ABP IS supposed to set Paralyze. I told you. These samurai have no other special features. Syldra cleam them up good.

Being able to use !Steal successfully is a great thing in this dungeon, so you'll probably want a Thief around. Chicken Knife + !Mug is a great idea you might wish to employ. Syldra boosted by an Air Knife is exceedingly powerful at the moment, so use it for crowd control. What's left is the challenge of the Tot Aevis, so rise to meet it. Buff spells and an Aevis Killer are great weapons. Since this fight takes so long, you might even find use for the buff Songs from the Bard. Prepare against Confuse spells by Confuse-resistant equipment or Reflect Rings that also help against the Executor's spells (but remove the Thief's Gloves as an option).

Push through the heavy doors of the Island Shrine to find another apparently featureless room. With Find Passages, you can see a hidden passage to the right which takes you to a chest containing 12000 Gil.

The next room will take you to a pipe, which will suck you in. Here, in the room with the switches, two treasures are hidden from you. On the wall to the left, one tile above the bottom-right tile, you can find a Hi-Potion. In the bottom-right corner, on the right wall, you can find an Iron Draft. Useless items, but they're there and if you miss them you'll have to cry yourself to sleep, I suppose.

Switches behave as follows:

Up/Up = Back to the entrance Up/Down = Takes you to a chest containing an Elixir Down/Down = Takes you to a chest containing 9000 Gil Down/Up = Takes you further in.

Raid both the Elixir and 9000 Gil chests before pressing on; get back to the switches room, flip the left one down and the right one up and get into that inviting tube. Here, there's a chest containing either Covert or Pantera. Both monsters are exclusive to being a monster-in-a-box in this chest, so you'll never be able to defeat both on the same file (though you can see both by opening the chest and running away a few times). Neither has a Bestiary entry, so no worries there.

The Covert is a red-clad ninja who may attack physically or use either Wind Slash or Blaze. It has 7000 HP. When you kill him, he'll go "Illusion" and summon two of his kind before passing away. Since they overlap perfectly, you won't see the first one die and the other two appear. Now, you'll have to fight two Coverts but you'll only see one on the battlefield. After you've killed the other two, the Covert will say "That's far enough!" and die. Golem is nice.

The Pantera is a super-Coeurl. It attacks physically and may randomly use Blaster, which sets either Paralyze or Death, 50-50 chance. Sadly, the Pantera battle is bugged. See, what was supposed to happen was this. When you allowed Pantera to live for two turns, it would summon two images of itself. "Illusion!" One of them would randomly be the 'real' Pantera and take damage. However, rather than starting this switch-eroo, the Pantera's will actually self-terminate as a first turn after multiplying.

iOS/Android: With a functioning Pantera battle. You'll see Pantera summon two images. Once you've seen which target takes damage, you know which one to attack. Firaga spells are very powerful, since Pantera is weak to Fire- elemental attacks. Pantera won't start using Blaster until after he summons the images, but Carbuncle or Reflect Rings bounce off Blaster attacks so no worries there. You cannot run from either the Covert or Pantera battle, though.

Regardless of its guardian, you'll get a Rising Sun for you trouble, which is basically an upgraded version of your Moonring Blade, a Thief- and Ninja- specific weapon which deals the same amount of damage from the Back Row. It is not a bad weapon, but is badly outperformed by the many other great weapons you've obtained (magic-boosting ones, Chicken Knife, Assassin's Dagger). It is also Aerial, so it will always hit those monsters that cannot avoid Aerial weapons, which includes most Floating enemies. You'll want a Thief in here anyway, and coupled with the Strength coming from Barehanded, the Rising Sun will deal respectable amounts of damage.

Continue for a Save Point. Welcome to the 2nd Floor. To the left, you can find a chest with an Ether. To the right, a secret passage detectable by a Thief will lead you to a chest containing a Crystal Helm. Both are useless. In the middle of the room is a chest containing either a Mecha Head or a Prototype. The former is one of those mechanical menaces you found in the Pyramid of Moore; the latter was the undefeatable thing you Controlled and Self-Destructed for Dark Matters back in World 1. For whatever reason, bring a Mystic Knight; the Mecha Head will instantly fall against Thundaga spellblade effects, and the Prototype is vulnerable to Petrify, so Break Spellblade effects kill it instantly. You'll get a Protect Ring for your troubles; the third one if you've been following so far. Press on.

The third floor will place you directly for a door. Get in and grab the chest's contents, a Beast Killer Whip. Lame! We got those a century ago, but it is still a good Whip if you never got the Dragon's Whisker. On the rest of the third floor, some trap halls exist which drop you down to the second floor. Evade them with the Geomancer's Find Pits to protect you from ridicule from your peers. Float does not work agains pitfalls. Note that the third floor can pride itself on supreme Oiseaurare density, so if you're Mirage Vest hunting, here's the place to be.

The fourth floor is featureless.

The fifth floor has two chests; another Ether and a Dragon Fang. If you approach these chests directly, you'll find pitfalls instead; go around to grab them and proceed. There are pitfalls around the exit.

The sixth floor is another Save Point.

The seventh floor has two chests: a Dark Matter to the left and a Circlet to the right. In the middle, however, another tablet lies. This is the tablet that will release the most powerful White spell and most powerful Black spell to you in the form of entrance to Fork Tower. Cid, like Mid told you in Crescent, is trapped underneath the tower, so we could both augment our own power and help a friend in the meantime.

Oh yeah, and there's a boss battle. Wendigo, one of The Eleven of the Rift is here to pull off two things Pantera could never hope to accomplish. First, a successful trick of invulnerability and deception. Second, sweet bloody victory.

**Level:** 7, HP: 20000, MP: 8192 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Dark Matter (common) · **Absorbs:** Water · **Nullifies:** Earth · **Status:** Float (always) · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Sleep, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, Confuse, Mind Blast, Hurricane, Frost

Wendigo

I'm not sure what Wendigo stands for. A blue-ish apparition of a naked man with a club and something strange on his forehead. He's like Dr. Manhatten, but a bad guy.

The Wendigo has four bodies, but only one of them is vulnerable to harm. At every time he takes HP damage, he'll jump to a random body and set his current HP to all four targets. For the fake targets this doesn't matter since they're invulernable to harm, but it ensures that Wendigo has only 20000 HP, and any damage you do in whatever body he's in will count down on the same 20000 HP. Whenever you use an MT attack (even those that deal no damage, such as Flash), all three decoy bodies will retaliate with Frost. An exception here is the Wind Slash katana's Gale Cut attack, but that's not exactly a solid strategy basis. The switching of bodies doesn't start until you first hurt Wendigo, so the first strike will always land. This makes it a decent idea to, say, release a Bulette at the start of the battle to hit for a lot of damage. In this initial attack, the Wendigo body with the MOST damage taken is the one that from that point on will be the 'real' Wendigo's HP that's jumping across blue naked bodies.

The Wendigo may randomly use an attack called Mind Blast. This magical attack is non-elemental and barrier-piercing and sets both Paralyze and Sap. It's a Blue spell that'll be of use later on; it's very cheap, both Paralyze and Sap can hardly ever be set by your characters and since it's non-elemental, it's never absorbed. It IS Reflectable, though. It's a Blue spell! If you're set on learning it, don't use Carbuncle. His other attacks are not as noteworthy; Hurricane misses very often due to Wendigo's low level, as does Confuse. His attacks look like the Fire Lash, even though he carries a spectral club. How delightfully eccentric!

The Wendigo's attacks are few and weak, so it's just a battle against the annoyance of having to target up to three targets before you hit the right one. Flame Rings and the Ice Shields you can steal in this very room both nullify and absorb the Frost attack; in the Ice Shield's case, Sap will still be set. Mind Blast (also, Confuse) can be reflected, so Carbuncle is a good idea. That and Golem, and you're a long way to winning the battle. If you're not one for games, apply Resist Ice (Mix a Phoenix Down with some Antidote) or Ice Shields to everybody, then let loose with your best MT attacks, likely boosted Syldra and/or !Zeninage. If you'd rather play it 'fair', it's best if you have some power behind your blows; having a Bard buff you during the battle is not a bad idea, specifically since you got the Bard's Best Song In The World not too long ago. Single-target boosted Black -aga spells are also quite powerful.

Another status ailment you can set is Sleep. Sleeping fake targets will not retaliate with Frost attacks, nor will Sleeping 'real' Stalkers jump to other bodies. If you set Sleep to all targets at the start of the battle before dealing any damage and provoking the body-switching, you can just unleash powerful MT magical attacks to all four opponents.

When the Wendigo is Wendigone, you gain the Second Tablet, you can return to the Sealed Castle and you can pick three more Legendary Weapons. For the next dungeon, Sasuke's Katana may prove useful due to its blocking nature while Yoichi's Bow is a powerful physical weapon that allows the Back Row. Since the Holy spell becomes available before you obtain the next Tablet, the Sage Staff is another good option. Note also that the Mirage Vest is a godsend in the Fork Tower; might want to get at least one (you'll get one from that NPC in the Phantom Village) before you continue.
