<a id="s4-44-1"></a>

### 4.44.1. Fork Tower; the fight against Minotaur and Omniscient

Opponents: Goblin (#1), Mani Wizard (#11), Bandersnatch (#19), Ricard Mage (#27), Tiny Mage (#162), Chrono Controller (#163), Flaremancer (#164), Dueling Knight (#165), Iron Muscles (#166), Berserker (#167), Minotaur (#291), Omniscient (#292)

Container contents: Defender, Ether, Hi-Potion, Wonder Wand

Miscellaneous items: Flame Shield (rare Dueling Knight steal), Healing Staff (rare Chrono Controller steal), Blitz Whip (rare Flaremancer steal), Kornago Gourd (rare Omniscient steal)

White spells: Holy

Black spells: Flare

"The tower of strength is the one on the right. Cast spells if you will; won't help in a fight."

"The tower on the left is the magic path. Even if you've got muscles, enemies just laugh."

Flawed poetry describing cardboard means of gaining power; how neat does it get? The Fork Tower is located on Crescent Island, or what once was Crescent Island I guess. It's thing surrounded by a desert so small it's pretty much just a pile of sand. There are two towers on this thing. The left one is the Black Tower; every enemy here will rip you apart the moment you attack with anything but Magic attacks, so you have little choice. The right tower is the White Tower, where muscles mean awesome and spellcasting is for little fairy boys.

First, you'll have to split your party into two parties. It would seem only logical to send two characters to each end of the tower. Know that once you have a Reflect Ring, the entire Black Tower is a walk in the park. It's the Tower of Power that can get you a little trouble, so you could choose to split 1/3. At any rate, neither of the two towers are very hard and only the guardian of the Holy spell presents some actual challenge, so you decide.

The Black Tower of Magicks is to the left, the White Tower of Prowess is to the right.

Black Tower:

Exterior regions, 5th Floor and 8th Floor: 35 % Tiny Mage x 2 35 % Chrono Controller 23 % Tiny Mage x 4 6 % Mani Wizard x 3

2nd Floor and 6th Floor: 35 % Tiny Mage x 4 35 % Chrono Controller x 2, Tiny Mage 23 % Flaremancer 6 % Mani Wizard x 3

3rd Floor, last exterior region and 9th Floor: 35 % Flaremancer 35 % Flaremancer x 2 23 % Flaremancer, Chrono Controller, Tiny Mage 6 % Ricard Mage x 3

4th Floor and 7th Floor: 35 % Flaremancer, Chrono Controller, Tiny Mage 35 % Tiny Mage x 2 23 % Chrono Controller 6 % Ricard Mage x 3

White Tower:

Exterior regions, 5th Floor and 8th Floor: 35 % Dueling Knight 35 % Iron Muscles 23 % Dueling Knight x 2 6 % Goblin x 3

2nd Floor and 6th Floor: 35 % Dueling Knight x 2 35 % Iron Muscles, Dueling Knight 23 % Berserker 6 % Goblin x 3

3rd Floor, last exterior region and 9th Floor: 35 % Berserker 35 % Berserker, Iron Muscles, Dueling Knight 23 % Berserker x 3 6 % Bandersnatch x 3

4th Floor and 7th Floor: 35 % Berserker x 3 35 % Iron Muscles 23 % Berserker 6 % Bandersnatch x 3

You start in the Black Tower, so let's talk about the wizards here first...

The Tiny Mage is the White Mage of the Black Tower; it casts only White magic, making its only actually dangerous attacks Confuse. Normally, Mini would be bad to you, but since it only affects physical attributes and you'll be casting Magic anyway, never mind. The spells the Tiny Mage uses include: Cura, Confuse, Shell, Mini, Libra, Dispel. When struck by a non-Magic attack, it will retaliate with a single Encircle attack, removing one of your characters from the battlefield. Don't.

The Chrono Controller is the Time Mage of the Black Tower. The spells it can cast are: Graviga, Slow, Regen, Float, Gravity, Comet, Slowga, Old, Banish and Hastega. Of these, the only really bad one is Banish, it won't use it until its fourth turn so you should've long since dispatched them by then. When struck by a non-Magic attack, it will counter with a Meteor spell, which is bad business. Should you want to steal one of its Healing Staves, note that Steal causes a Meteor counter. The Chrono Controller can be Silenced, so use that to your advantage.

The Flaremancer is the Black Mage and the most dangerous opponent of the Black Tower. It's one of the four demons the Necromancer Job can summon later in the game, where it uses a Flare spell. It can cast Fira, Blizzara, Thundara, Bio, Break, Firaga, Blizzaga and Thundaga. When struck by a non-Magic attack, he'll counter with two (Strong) Attack physical attacks doing 9999 damage. The Flaremancer has a rare Blitz Whip you can steal. Useless, but if you really want to go for one you'd best Berserk the Flaremancer before attempting to touch the creature's possessions as it'll counter your !Steal attempts.

Mind if I don't discuss the Ricard Mages and ManiWizards? Merci.

With Reflect Rings, no attack will ever touch you. Make absolutely sure to never, never use anything that's not !White, !Time, !Black, !Summon, !Red or !Blue on the opponents here. If you're not interested in fighting these guys, it is almost impossible to flee manually, so use Teleport spells or the action abilities. You should quickly rush to the top. The path is very straightforward; on the fourth floor you'll find an Ether; on the seventh floor you'll find the Wonder Wand.

The Wonder Wand will cast the weakest White spell (Cure) and work it's way up from there, skipping Libra, up to Holy and Dispel. It'll even cast these spells if you haven't bought or found them yet. When done with all White spells, it'll start with Black spells from Fire to Flare and Death. When prepared right, this Rod can fire off Firaga, Thundaga, Blizzaga and Flare in four subsequent turns, even when the character wielding the Rod is Silenced, can't cast any magic due to Mute or has no MP. The Wonder Wand also casts Return when used an item without breaking, so in the very very few battles where Mute is present from the get-go, you can still cast Return with the Wonder Wand. Note that there is only a single byte that governs what spells are 'up' for casting for any given Wonder Wand; should you get another one (which is possible), the list of spells is shared between Wonder Wands. To make it even more clear; Dual-Wielding Wonder Wands will get you two subsequent spells, such as Cure with the right hand and Poisona with the left hand.

When your character(s) is/are at the eight floor of the Black Tower, it's almost time for the switch. NOW is your chance to equip and prepare for the boss of the Black Tower! When you're at the top of the Black Tower, you'll skip to your party in the White Tower. So, time to discuss those!

The Dueling Knight is the only enemy that will respond to you using Magic; the White Tower is far more lenient when it comes to the rules. When struck by Magic, the Dueling Knight will say that Magic is forbidden and counter with four physical attacks you'll easily survive. The Dueling Knight also has a rare Flame Shield you can steal; getting up to four in your inventory is an unnecessary luxury, but there is a battle where Fire resistance is very important and you may not want to muck about with Flame Rings in that battle.

Iron Muscles is big, fat and stupid. It hits. Kill it.

The same goes for Berserker, though they can be more easily forgiven for their silliness since they rarely drop Death Sickles.

Mirage Vests, Hermes Shoes and powerful weapons will get you through this location easily. Yoichi's Bow, the Gaia Hammer and the Dragon's Whisker/Fire Lash are powerful weapons which deal as much damage from the back row. You almost can't run from these guys, so use !Flee or !Smoke if you want to.

The White Tower mirrors the Black Tower in lay-out. On the fourth floor you'll find a Hi-Potion, and on the seventh floor you'll find a chest containing a Defender, a new Knightsword. The Defender tends to see little air-time since it's likely you already have either a fully powered Brave Blade or the legendary Excalibur, but the Defender is actually a very decent weapon. You could've stolen them earlier from Sea Devils or Landcrawlers, but here it is lying around in a chest. It has the same inherent 25 % evasive abilities the Main Gauche has, it has a very solid Battle Power and it casts Protect when used as an item without breaking.

At the top of the White Tower, you can fight Minotaurus, the brother of Sekhmet and the guardian of the ultimate White spell, Holy.

**Level:** 37, HP: 19850, MP: 0 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Fuma Shuriken (rare), Leather Shoes (common) · **Absorbs:** Water, Earth, Holy, Poison, Nullifies: Earth · **Creature:** Heavy, Humanoid · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Holy

Minotaur

The Minotaur attacks physically only. Within the battle, the effects of Mute will be set so you can't cast Magic versus the Minotaur. Key here is the protection from physical attacks. The Mirage Vest is a great asset, as is the Knight's !Guard and Cover abilities. As always, the !Guard/Counter strategy ensures your victory as Minotaur will not be able to damage you. The Defender is a grand equip in the fight; you can 'cast' Protect with it while it would otherwise be more difficult and require the !Drink or !Mix ability.

With the Magic Lamp, you can summon Golem which is a blessing in this fight. The !Image ability also helps a lot as you can use it to nullify up to two attacks. The Wonder Wand, in addition to the Defender Sword, allows you to set Protect on a character, which is definitely a plus. You might want to equip the Wonder Wand anyway so you can try to get the Fuma Shuriken from the Minotaur. Should that be the case, I suggest a Red Mage with a Lamia's Tiara equipped; when you don't need the Wonder Wand, you can equip the Dancing Dagger and attack physically, dealing about 3000 damage. If you have a Rune Blade, that's an easier option to consider. Finally, consider the Chemist. It has the ability to set Protect and Haste and can double its HP, and can heal 1000 HP with a Hi-Potion. If you have action abilities that allow a Chemist to do some kind of worthwhile damage, such as Barehanded, !Throw or Equip Bows, you'll be good to go.

The Minotaur is a tough fight since its attacks are powerful and you don't have a full party, but since all of his attacks are relatively easily countered you can defeat him without much trouble. When Minotaur dies, he'll cast Holy but lack the MP; with an Ether you could've allowed him to actually cast the spell; it doesn't do over 1000 damage to a single target.

Within a second or 5, you'll have to interact with the red sphere to engage in a fight with the Omniscient, or else Fork Tower will explode in a fashion similar to how Karnak Castle would have exploded if you let the timer run out.

**Level:** 53, HP: 16999, MP: 30000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 8 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Kornago Gourd (rare), Potion (common) · **Weakness:** Wind · **Status:** Protect, Shell, Regen · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Old, Paralyze, Berserk, Silence, Slow, Stop · **Attacks:** Cure, Libra, Silence, Mini, Cura, Confuse, Reflect, Fire, Blizzard,

Omniscient Poison, Toad, Fira, Blizzara, Thundara, Drain, Bio, Firaga, Blizzaga, Thundaga, Slow, Regen, Haste, Float, Gravity, Stop, Graviga, Return, Flare

Omnisicent the all-knowing arcanist randomly casts any of the above spells. Of course, there's a certain pattern to it, but it's not of any importance. When Omniscient hits 4000 HP, his attack pattern changes and he won't cast anything but 5th tier Black magic, which deals over 2000 damage to a single target. Upon defeat Omniscient will cast Flare.

When wearing Reflect Rings you'll be immune to all of the wizard's attacks, disregarding Drain. This, however, does not guarantee your victory as Omniscient's Regen status will keep him healed from his spells that will reflect off you. His weakness to Wind-elemental attacks cannot be exploited with !Gaia, but Aeroga and Syldra's Thunderstorm - boosted, naturally - really hurt him. If you can cast Dispel, you can remove his Shell status to double your damage output, but since Omniscient shouldn't be able to hurt you at all, it's not very important.

The thing to this fight is the Kornago Gourd. There are only two of them in this game, and this is the second. Every non-Magic command is countered by a Return spell by Omniscient. Every non-Magic command? Nah, just for the occasion, and because you've finished your plate like a good boy for the past three years, Square made an exception and you get to use !Steal without having him use Return. So, a Thief with !Blue or !Summon (a Thief can equip the Air Knife) is awesome to bring into the battle. The Reflect Ring takes priority over the Thief's Gloves so you might find yourself missing a few Steal attempts, but eventually you'll wade through all the Potions and get your Gourd. Note that using the Judgment Staff to 'cast' Dispel will cause Omniscient to counter with Return.

If you lack Reflect Rings, by the way, you can set it with Reflect, Carbuncle's Ruby Light and Dragon Defense (Dragon Fang + Phoenix Down), but you'll have to make sure it stays in the fight as non-inherent Reflect tends to fade off after a while.

The fight with Omniscient isn't a difficult one, and when it's all over Fork Tower fades from this existence to pass into another. The Catapult, restplace of the airship, is now freed so we can free Cid.

Holy is a massively powerful spell, and your only source of Holy-elemental damage. Its power can be boosted by the Sage's Staff and the Rune Chime, the latter which you probably hadn't have access to (it's a rare drop in the final dungeon). Flare is non-elemental and therefor weaker than boosted -aga spells. It does almost entirely disregard the target's Magic Defense, and looks pretty spiffy. They're also Spellblade effects. Holy is just like Firaga and the like, but Holy-elemental. Flare adds 100 to the blade's Battle Power and let's the attack use only 25% of the target's Defense; Flare is the only Spellblade effect that simply powers up the blade (significnatly!) without having to check for elemental properties.

When you're done, the Tower has disappeared and the Catapult is open once again. Fly your Airship into it to find Cid. Down in the stairs in the room with that button that opened the hole all that time ago. Cutscences, cutscenes.
