<a id="s4-45-1"></a>

### 4.45.1. The sunken Tower of Walse; Famed Mimic Gogo and the 'final' shard

Opponents: Moldwynd (#10), Elf Toad (#25), Jackanapes (#30), Crew Dust (#37), Bomb (#49), Black Flame (#53), Prototype (#56), Dhorme Chimera (#58), Enchanted Fan (#65), Treant (#74), Birostris (#81), Drippy (#100), Dark Aspic, (#113), Lamia Queen (#143), Famed Mimic Gogo (#297)

Miscellaneous items: Thornlet (rare Lamia Queen steal), Gold Hairpin (rare Famed Mimic Gogo steal)

Blue spells: Lv. 2 Old, Lv. 3 Flare, Lv. 4 Graviga, Lv. 5 Death, Missile, Flame Thrower, Self-Destruct, Time Slip, Moon Flure, Aero, ???, 1000 Needles, Aqua Breath, Magic Hammer, Death Claw, White Wind, Aero, Goblin Punch, Dark Spark, Pond's Chorus, Lilliputian Lyric, Flash, Transfusion, Aeroga, Vampire

NOTE: At the end of this submerged tower, you'll quarrel with an opponent over the a crystal shard, but you don't actually (have to) beat him in order to obtain it. In fact, Famed Mimic Gogo is quite unbeatable... but not entirely. If you want to defeat this thing, you should not dive into this dungeon now but wait until the very end of the game. If this is your madness, you can already sneak a peek at how this will be accomplished: [GOGO-LINK]

Enter the Catapult. You'll find Cid trapped in a spinning wheel. Mid appears from nowhere, even though he has no actual means to reach the Catapult. And just because it seems to be theme for today, they decide to mess with your airship for no apparent reason at all. When all is over and you're grown past the fact they actually re-used an old cutscene, you can scoot. Faris suggest we try to find the third tablet which lies under the ocean's floor, but we have other things to do.

Underwater, you will find four dots catching your attention. The one in the middle of nowhere is the location of the Third Tablet, but we're going to let it slide for now. The western-most sparkle is just the location of the lake near Moore, which you once used as your only entry point. The north- western dots is the location of the Fourth Tablet, but we're going to ignore that one as well!

Just south of Karnak, you can take the submarine to a hidden cavern where Mr. Clio the Psychic lives. He'll give you useless info, but it's fun. His name is not from Japan (he's nameless in the original game), but a reference to Miss Cleo, some self-proclaimed psychic shaman woman from the States.

Remember the place where I told you you could find Stingray? Beneath the vast Gloceana Desert, you can submerge the airship to find the sunken Tower of Walse. It still holds one of the crystal shards of the Water Crystal, and we need all the help we can get versus Exdeath and its minions. Let's dive in!

When you leave the Airshupmarine, you'll get a timer of 7:00 minutes. If you run out of breath, you die! This is not something that should happen. No worries, it's not very hard. All the monsters here have been rendered black, so there's no telling who or what they are. However, I've listed them!

Top Floor: 42 % Traveler, Jackanapes, Moldwynd 35 % Level Checker, Prototype 23 % Bomb, Wild Nakk, Lamia Queen

Nineth Floor: 42 % Enchanted Fan, Goblin, Black Flame 35 % Dhorme Chimera, Drippy, Treant 23 % Elf Toad, Mini Magician, Crew Dust

Eight Floor: 42 % Birostris, Magic Dragon, Dark Aspic 35 % Elf Toad, Mini Magician, Crew Dust 23 % Traveler, Jackanapes, Moldwynd

Seventh Floor: 42 % Bomb, Wild Nakk, Lamia Queen 35 % Traveler, Jackanapes, Moldwynd 23 % Enchanted Fan, Goblin, Black Flame

Sixth Floor: 35 % Enchanted Fan, Goblin, Black Flame 35 % Level Checker, Prototype 30 % Birostris, Magic Dragon, Dark Aspic

Fifth Floor: 35 % Birostris, Magic Dragon, Dark Aspic 35 % Dhorme Chimera, Drippy, Treant 23 % Bomb, Wilk Nakk, Lamia Queen 6 % Enchanted Fan, Goblin, Black Flame

Fourth Floor: 35 % Bomb, Wild Nakk, Lamia Queen 35 % Elf Toad, Mini Magician, Crew Dust 23 % Level Checker, Prototype 6 % Traveler, Jackanapes, Moldwynd

Third Floor: 35 % Level Checker, Prototype 35 % Traveler, Jackanapes, Moldwynd 23 % Dhorme Chimera, Drippy, Treant 6 % Elf Toad, Mini Magician, Crew Dust

Second Floor: 42 % Dhorme Chimera, Drippy, Treant 35 % Enchanted Fan, Goblin, Black Flame 23 % Elf Toad, Mini Magician, Crew Dust

First Floor: 35 % Elf Toad, Mini Magician, Crew Dust 35 % Birostris, Magic Dragon, Dark Aspic 23 % Dhorme Chimera, Drippy, Treant 6 % Level Checker, Prototype

The only enemy really worth nothing specifically in this context is Prototype. Unless you have !Control (so you can make it Self-Destruct) or any means of setting Petrify (Break, Break !Spellblade, Catoblepas), you are in a for a long long battle you don't have the time for. Have one of the above. !Rapid Fire cuts through its defenses nicely as well, but doesn't work quite as fast.

There is one new enemy as well: the Level Checker. It checks your level, then disregards than information and drives into walls. Seriously, it does not modify its level-based attacks at all, it's just curious or something. Search can be Reflected! Nobody cares. It may rarely drop an Elixir.

It's interesting to note how every enemy, though seemingly randomly selected, is the stereotypical tutor of a Blue spell. Not all Blue magic can be learned here, but a great deal of spells you could have learned so far are present here if you missed them earlier. The ones that are missing are Doom, Roulette, Aeroga, Off-Guard, Mind Blast and Mighty Guard.

You know where to go! Fight through unseen enemies from the past. If you use the 'Read Ahead' support ability here, which you probably don't have since you must've waited for a good amount of chapters before you entered this Sunken Tower to get the Job that teaches it, you don't encounter any enemies if you just stick to the shortest path. On the fifth floor, a chest is closed. Goodies? No, but you are able to restore your Air supply, setting the timer back to 7:00.

At the first floor, you can find the final shard! A cryptic message appears when you want to take it. "Yes" will do nothing. "No" will get you in trouble. Before you answer "No", take some time to reflect on the fact you are about to receive 50 ABP for free in this fight. You can send in any Job and you won't have to worry about performance at all. The exception here being Berserkers, you shouldn't bring those. You shouldn't bring them to lots of things; weddings, job interviews, furry conventions. Novice Chemists can go from 0 to 50 ABP on the Job, learning Pharmacology and !Mix in the process. Amateur Samurai can learn !Zeninage in this fight,

**Level:** 77, HP: 47714, MP: 60000 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 30%, Magic Evasion: 99% · **Steal:** Gold Hairpin (rare), Leather Armor (common) · **Win:** Tiger Mask (rare) · **Nullifies:** Water · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, (Strong) Attack, Holy, Flare, Meteo,

Famed Mimic Gogo Maelstrom, Ice Storm, Aqua Breath, Frost

This is a very simple battle to win, since you don't have to do anything! Gogo urges you to mimic his movements, and if you remain passive like him, he'll eventually remove himself from the battlefield.

Famed Mimic Gogo, for all his outlandish attire and speech, is one of the most difficult opponents in the game. If you provoke him with a physical attack (including !Steal), he may either counter with a normal physical, !Critical Attack or (Strong) Attack, which will kill a character. If you use a spell on him, even if it is benificial, he will counter with either a Holy, Flare or Meteo spell, which are all very powerful.

If you deal 14714 damage to him and survive to see it, he will become strongly agitated. "You uncultured boors! Know you nothing of an artist's soul? Cut! Cut! Stop TRYING to mimic! Start over, recenter, and begin!" Then, he will cast Meteor thrice in a row and kill you with powerful attacks. You are not equipped to handle this fight at all right now, so this is a Game Over for you.

Just do nothing! You could attempt to Steal that Gold Hairpin if you want, but note that Return does not reset the global timer of drowning so you don't have infinite attempts.

For the purposes of this walkthrough, I'm going to return here later with better equipment options just to defeat this guy. You probably shouldn't, but it's pretty much the same as you could do without the Mime Job no problem.

If you win, you get the Mime Job! The Mime should really just be seen as an alternate Freelancer. Like the Freelancer, he obtains stats and inherent support abilities of mastered Jobs. There is a differce, though. Freelancers can equip every piece of equipment in the game and have two ability slots. Mimes can equip almost every shield and piece of armor and accessory (even such travesties as the Thief's Gloves and Angel Robe) except for the Ribbon set. On weapons, the Mime can equip only Knives, Rods, Staves and the three weapons the Thief and Ninja can use (Moonring Blade, Rising Sun, Twin Lance). I find the Mime a better congregation Job for mages, but the Freelancer better for physical attackers.

[MIME-LINK]

When you're done either getting the Mime shard or leaving it there for future brawls with Famed Mimic Gogo, you're done here. Let's get out.
