<a id="s4-46-1"></a>

### 4.46.1. The Great Sea Trench; the Fire tablet

Opponents: Unknown (#168), Unknown (#169), Unknown (#170), Unknown (#171), Unknown (#172), Triton (#293), Nereid (#294), Phobos (#295)

Container contents: Water Scroll, Dragon Fang, Ether, Phoenix Down, Flame Ring, Kaiser Knuckles

Miscellaneous items: Beast Killer (rare Unknown (spore2) steal)

Time spells: Meteor

Blue spells: Doom, Transfusion, Flame Thrower

"One rests beneath the ocean's floor, engulfed by flames..."

Do you remember when I talked about the white sparkle in the middle of the ocean? The one you could see on the Submarine map? Go there! It's the Great Sea Trench, the location of the Third tablet. I will not talk about Gargoyles, but they are there. Before you enter this dungeon, make sure you can summon Odin or have the Magic Lamp in your inventory. If you don't have Odin yet, take a look at:

[ODIN-LINK]

All the enemies here are called Unknown. What, did you think I wouldn't know the enemies here? I know everything.

B2: 35 % (blob) x 2 35 % (blob), (worm) x 2 23 % (worm) x 4 6 % (spore2) x 3

B4: 35 % (worm) x 4 35 % (blob) x 2, (worm) 23 % (spore1), (worm), (blob) 6 % (spore2) x 3

B4 (back room): 35 % (spore1), (worm), (blob) 35 % (spore1) x 3 30 % (spore2) x 3

B5: 35 % (blob), (worm), (skeleton) x 2 35 % (spore1), (blob), (skeleton) 23 % (spore1) x 3 6 % (spore2) x 3

B6: 58 % (skeleton) x 3 35 % (spore1), (blob), (skeleton) 6 % (spore2) x 3

B8: 35 % (blob) x 2 35 % (blob), (spore1) x 2 23 % (spore1) x 3 6 % (spore2) x 3

All enemies here start with Protect set; though you can remove it with the Dispel spell or using the Judgment Staff as an item, your means of dealing damage should be magical in nature anyway.

Unknown (blob) looks like a fat...thing sliming. It's the biggest one and weak to water. As a reaction to every !Attack, it will remove a character from the battlefield and kill itself with an attack called Possess, but your character will be fine when the battle is over though missing out on ABP. It may use Slimer.

Unknown (worm) is also sliming, but it also looks like a worm. They use Digestive Acid and Slimer. Ukh.

Then there is Unknown (spore). There are two types. Those that come in trios will revive each other if one or two are down. The initially surviving member(s) will then attempt to use Delta Attack, but they normally lack the MP. They should be taken out with MT attacks, which are vastly superior in this dungeon anyway. You can steal a rare Beast Killer Whip from this variety. The other version of Unknown (spore) is boring and will just attack physically and use Spore to set the Poison status. Sometimes, because this game hates you, three of these enemies will be of the boring variety. You can test out if you can steal a Beast Killer by killing one and see what happens. I've called the boring one (spore1) and the also boring but Whip-carrying one (spore2).

The most sturdy opponent here is Unknown (skeleton). They like to use the Doom spell all the time, setting a timer which will kill at 0. Blue Mages can learn this attack.

All the enemies here are weak on Magic Defense, have high Defense and inherent Protect and are Undead. Boosted Syldra summoning and Requiem are very powerful MT attacks to deal here. The Sage Staff and Apollo's Harp will deal a LOT of damage to a single target, killing it instantly. Blades, Knives and Swords probably shouldn't be used here unless they are the Holy Lance or Excalibur; but even they will run into Protect. Mostly just stick to two characters chanting Requiem and have the other two twiddle their thumbs with Jobs that you want to grow.

Welcome to B2! We can't stop here, for this is bat country. There are enemies and a chest containing a Water Scroll. Square, this is FAKE treasure. We don't want this! Continue.

B3 features a single Save Point, which is great, I guess.

B4 has skeleton buttons. A lot of them. You'll need to press the first, but not the second in order to continue lave-free (or at all). The Geomancer's Light Step and the Float status circumvents lava damage, if you forgot. In the back room, there are a lot of skeleton buttons to choose from. The are all traps! Except for the one in the top-right corner, that is the one that creates a path. Go back to the slightly higher plateau and go up to witness the new path, leading to a chest containing an awesome Flame Ring.

If you descend the stairs out of this room, you will meet lava. You could care less about the lava, or you could return and press the second button you passed. It will drop you a level down, but safely on the ground.

B5. There are pits of lava you could've fallen in from B4, and a staircase leading down to B6. Don't forget to open the chest here, it contains a Dragon Fang. AWESOME. Unknown (skeleton) starts to appear here.

B6 has more lava and more rocky pathways, but this time you can't avoid going through the lava. There are chests as well for you to open: Ether and Phoenix Down. It is all clear to us now. This is the dungeon of SUCK.

B7...leads to a door? With Dwarves? Dwarves!

Welcome to the great Dwarven Kingdom!

The Armor and Weapon shop here is the same guy. When called from the front or back, he'll sell armor. From the sides, he'll sell weapons. The selection here is quite excellent...but it's the selection from the Phantom Village. Had I not been this much of a spoil-sport, this is the first time you would have seen these items. Now, they are useless.

Rallybo is digging a tunnel. Likely out of pure frustration over being called like a children's game from Mexico. He'll point you to the location of the Phantom Village. So there it was!

When you're done with the people of small stature...little people...I mean, the vertically challenged...Dwarves. When you're done with the Dwarves, you can exit into a lake free of encounters. There is a small dent in the bottom wall you see can be used to recharge the Magic Lamp! It'll flash regardless of the Magic Lamp recharging or not, but never more than once without you leaving and entering. Such trivia!

At what we can call B8 or something, the second chest you see contains Kaiser Knuckles. But you can't get it. Nyah-nyah. There are buttons on this floor, a lot of them. Most are fake. The one to the far right isn't, though, and opens up a pathway to a chest containing the Knuckles.

You could have gotten them earlier, but the chance was almost non-existent. Barehanded punches are normally based off your Level and Battle Power. However, with Kaiser Knuckles the Battle Power is inherently boosted by 50, making Barehanded punches nice enough again. In addition, they boost Strength by 5 and give more Defense than other Accessories (except for the Genji Gloves and Cursed Ring). They are for your Monk to use.

Pressing the other three buttons in this room disarms the trap behind the other chest, so when you open it, the door just opens. The chest was empty, but we can rise again to B7, where the Third tablet is already waiting for us. However, Exdeath's guardians are ever-present, and the three little piggies are all on our case.

These three creatures were recruited as one, one of the Eleven of the Rift. Together with Wendigo and another, unknown demon, they were more than anxious to escape the Interdimensional Rift after a thousand years. And now, here they are...

**Level:** 37, HP: 13333, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 25 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 60% · **Steal:** Elixir (rare), Gold Needle (common) · **Win:** Power Drink (rare) · **Absorbs:** Fire · **Weakness:** Ice · **Creature:** Undead · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, · **Attacks:** Attack, Blizzaga, Ice Storm, Frost, Delta Attack

Triton Confuse, Stop, Regen

**Level:** 20, HP: 13333, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 25 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 60% · **Steal:** Elixir (rare), Gold Needle (common) · **Win:** Protect Drink (rare) · **Absorbs:** Ice · **Weakness:** Fire · **Creature:** Undead · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, · **Attacks:** Attack, Firaga, Flame Thrower, Delta Attack

Nereid Confuse, Stop, Regen

**Level:** 39, HP: 13333, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 25 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 60% · **Steal:** Elixir (rare), Gold Needle (common) · **Win:** Goliath Tonic (rare) · **Absorbs:** Poison · **Weakness:** Earth · **Creature:** Undead · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, · **Attacks:** Attack, Bio, Rainbow Wind

Phobos Confuse, Stop, Regen

What? They are babies that go Oink and are named after moons. Make up your mind! What are these? They are demons from the Interdimensional Rift, they don't have to make sense I guess. They have little swords and capes as well. This is likely some sort of crazy Japanese reference to Hero Babies or the like, I dunno.

This fight is the three Unknown (spore) fight on crack. All three targets are Undead and NOT Heavy, so you can kill them any way you like. Raise spells, Phoenix Downs, Curaga, all that jazz. However, if one of them falls, the others will revive him with full HP and a Delta Attack will take place. This is not good.

They are Undead, so Requiem works great. None of the targets absorb Syldra or MT Thundaga spells, so go with those. You'll want to damage all targets equally to avoid revival, so Titan's Gaia's Wrath is a no-go. Don't attack physically, not even !Kick (as Nereid will take half damage).

Carbuncle can help you avoid a lot of attacks should it come to that. Firaga, Bio and Blizzaga are Reflectable, as well as Delta Attack. Combine with Golem and/or Mighty Guard for a lot of protection.

For a cheap victory, Odin's Zantetsuken or the Samurai's !Iainuki can instantly end the fight by killing them all in a single shot. You can !Flirt with the mutant babies (but you won't want to), you can cast Curaga (ST), Graviga, Death Claw or Missile on them all then finish them off with Syldra, your choices are endless.

When you're done, you get the ultimate !Time spell, this being Meteo. It is basically a non-elemental attack, only it attacks four times. It is very powerful on a single target, but wasteful on multiple ones. It deals random damage as well, and every shot is affected gravely by Magic Defense so low- powered blows may even get you 0 damage. I'm making it sound bad, it's not. It's just random.

When you're done, learned Doom, got every treasure, there is no reason not to Teleport out. I should not have to remind you that you can take three more Sealed Weapons from the relevant castle. Now that you have Holy, the Sage's Staff becomes an attractive option for White Mages and Chemists, Time Mages and Red Mages with Holy spells.

It's time to find the last of the four tablets, the one hidden behind Istory Falls. For this dungeon, it is highly have the Blue spell Mighty Guard. If you don't have it yet, take a look at:

[STINGRAY-LINK]

Take the airshupmarine to river leading up to Istory Falls, both located to the north-west. Now, land in the sea just south to it, and submerge your vessel. Somewhere here (the map indicates this with a white dot) lies the entrance to a cave on the Sea Floor where Ironbacks and Druids still roam.

Sea Floor Cave: 35 % Druid x 3 35 % Druid, Ironback 30 % Ironback x 3

You can Catch Ironbacks for a great one-time Release attack and steal Angel Rings from the Druids, but you already knew that. This really is the best time to get them, since Zombie will be thrown around in the future and you will want to be able to protect yourself from it. Angel Rings can be purchased for a whooping 50000 Gil in the Phantom Village, or you can invest the time by Stealing and Resetting until you get at least three (you'll find one in a chest later in the game). When you reach the surface, you're in front of a piece of desert.

Desert: 35 % Desert Killer x2 35 % Desert Killer, Sandboil x2 23 % Sand Bear 6 % Sand Bear, Desert Killer, Sandboil

Hey, old encounters! So that Javelin you can only obtain by stealing it from a Sand Bear is not missable, that's possibly good news. When you're done playing in this sand pit, walk over the other end of the desert to reach the entrance of the strange coiling caves behind Istory Falls.
