<a id="s4-47-1"></a>

### 4.47.1. Istory Falls; the Water tablet

Opponents: Mercury Bat (#178), Coral (#179), Aquagel (#180), Steel Fist (#181), Alchymia (#182), Red Dragon Toad (-), Hydra Toad (-), Ghidra Toad (-), Tonberry (#183), Leviathan (#296)

Container contents: 12000 Gil, Turtle Shell, Ether, Air Knife, Goliath Tonic, Rune Blade, Protect Ring, Phoenix Down, Reflect Ring, Enhancer

Miscellaneous items: Man-Eater (rare Alchymia steal), Mirage Vest (rare Tonberry drop), Kaiser Knuckles (rare Steel Fist drop), Reflect Ring (guaranteed Leviathan drop)

Summon spells: Leviathan

Blue spells: Vampire, Aqua Breath

"One rests beyond the river's torrents, protected by water..."

Welcome to the cave behind the Waterfall! It is said that the road to Shangri-La the land of milk and honey, could be found behind a waterfall. But there's something even better in this cave. Stronger weapons! Take one toke of Istory Falls' sweet fragrance...

One toke? You poor fool! Wait till you see those goddamn bats.

Entree room, second room: 35 % Mercury Bat x 3 35 % Aquagel x 3 23 % Alchymia, Red Dragon Toad 6 % Tonberry

B2: 35 % Mercury Bat x 5 35 % Aquagel x 2, Coral x 2 23 % Alchymia, Hydra Toad 6 % Tonberry

B3: 35 % Coral, Mercury Bat x 2 35 % Steel Fist 23 % Steel Fist x 3 6 % Tonberry

B4: 35 % Coral x 4 35 % Steel Fist, Mercury Bat x 3 23 % Alchymia, Ghidra Toad 6 % Tonberry

B5: 35 % Aquagel 35 % Steel Fist x 3 23 % Alchymia, Red Dragon Toad 6 % Tonberry

As an erudite reader may have predicted, this is bat country. Mercury Bats have very little HP (500) and use Vampire. Their !Claw Special Technique adds the Old status, but these fights should be over quickly. Aquagel will attack physically with quite some force and is weak to Lightning-elemental attacks. Coral is pretty much the same, though it may rarely use Spore to Poison a target. Now on to the interesting enemies!

Steel Fists are a drag. They counter every !Attack with !Air Fist, which sets Old and HP Leak. They may randomly drop Kaiser Knuckles, which is a good thing if you ever want four Monks or something. They are immune to NO status ailments, but their Magical Evasion is fairly high. Sleep Spellblade and !Mix potions such as Toad's Kiss (Maiden's Kiss + Dark Matter) can help you out. Odin's Zantetsuken looks at level, never at Magic Evasion; he's a great way of finishing any Steel Fist encounter you... encounter.

Alchymia will always be accompanied by a toad. If you let her be, she'll dispel the Toad status of the monster, revealing it as either a souped up Red Dragon (no elemental weaknesses, no rare Flame Ring steal) or an improved Hydra (may use either a powerful Tidal Wave attack or Poison Breath). If you kill the froggy before she can reveal its true nature, she'll start casting Death spells on you. Take her out from the back row with spells such as Flare. She has a rare Man-Eater for you to steal. A Man-Eater Jump attack will kill her in a single hit! Note that the Dragon Toads do not affect the Bestiary.

The Man-Eater is a Knife only useable by the Dancer. In addition, it functions more like a Lance; it is incompatible with Spellblade and deals double damage with the !Jump attack. Man-Eaters will always deal a Critical Hit versus Humanoid targets, being twice as powerful and ignoring Defense. A Dragoon with equip Ribbon (which also allows the Man-Eater) or a Dancer with !Jump is great fun. Official artwork depicts the Man-Eater with a nasty serrated blade.

Those frogs, by the way, can be changed BACK into frogs easily; in addition, you could lift the curse yourself if you want to.

The Tonberry makes its first Final Fantasy appearance in this game, in this very cave. How cool! It's the rare encounter in all rooms; this demon's power is enough to bring death with just one blow. Tonberries have 39393 HP, slowly walk over to you and stab you in the face when they reach you. Seriously, they use three !Knife attacks in a row, and it'll demolish you. !Knife is unblockable, barrier-piercing and incredibly powerful. Tonberries are Humanoid and not Heavy, so despite their dangerous nature they can be easily dispatched. They are immune to Instant Death and Petrify, but Odin's Zantetsuken, !Iaiuki, and !Flirt are ways to stopping the tiny fiend. If you lack the ability to exploit its lack of Heavy nature, the Blink spell grants you immunity to its murderous attacks. They may rarely drop a Mirage Vest.

This cave is filled with enemies weak to Lightning-elemental attacks, so those who can summon Ramuh, cast Bolt 3 or toss Lightning Scrolls will have a field day here. !Summon 4 is nice to have whenever Tonberry makes an appearance. Since Alchymia has an interesting rare steal and since Back Attacks can be dangerous due to the powerful pouding of Aquagel enemies, a Thief is a great addition to your team in this cave.

The gargoyles. Goyle their gars good with Berserk and with not-Holy spells.

Upon entry, you'll find a cave overflowing with water. You can use the stairs to ascend and the waterfalls to descend. There are three chests here, containing a Turtle Shell, Ether and an Air Knife, all of which are mildly useless but not entirely so. Find the door to continue. You'll get to go either left or right. Go right.

B2 is where the good stuff's at. Walking down will get you to a chest containing a Goliath Tonic, but you can't miss the 'hidden' pathway to a chest with a Rune Blade. Rune Blade! You could've gotten one from a Stingray, but this is less effort. Rune Blades are awesome. Put them on Mystic Knights and Red/Blue Mages with !Dance and a Lamia's Tiara for great effects.

Leave the water and go left. Enter the water, leave the water. Go up to find a chest you can't get since there's a waterfall blocking your way. In the Super Famicom (Japanese SNES) game, you needed a Thief to get it. You'll be able to run with the B button, though, so there's no need. Good gracious, it's a Protect Ring! It's the fourth. To the bottom-left is the exit.

B3 houses a single pathway, two chests (Phoenix Down, Reflect Ring) and a single exit. It leads to a Save Point!

B4 is dark as the ocean's floor. You'll want a Geomancer (or a character with the Find Pits ability) here, since there are a few snares here and there that will drop you to B5. It's annoying when you still have business here. In the room you access in the middle of B4, a chest contains an Artemis Bow.

The Artemis Bow is an accurate Bow without Critical Hit features or stat boosts. Altogether inferior to Yoichi's Bow, it does always inflicts a Critical Hit on Magic Beasts, making it a solid alternative when facing them. There are no Magic Beasts here, though.

In the larger room of B4, the bottom-left chest contains 12000 Gil and the upper-left one has an Enhancer, the most powerful Sword (not Knightsword) when speaking Attack Power.

The Enhancer is the Sword for those Jobs that want to equip a Sword but not really attack with it. If you favor support or magical mayhem over physical damage, the Enhancer is better than the Rune Blade. Blue Mages will like it better, likely. In addition, if you want to use the Mystic Knight for Spellblade, the Enhancer's were it's at.

Go down to B5 now. There are three chests here. Always press the buttons next to the chests first, else you might get spiked on the surrounding traps. There is a Fuma Shuriken, a Titan's Axe and an Aegis Shield. The Titan's Axe is the most powerful Axe ever. It's far more powerful than a Gaia Hammer. However, it does not ignore row, so when your Berserker picks a target in the back, it'll deal halve damage. The second Aegis Shield is AWESOME.

In the middle of this room is a cave which grants you access to an Artemis Bow, which is more powerful than Yoichi's Bow and deals critical damage to Magic Beasts, but will otherwise never inflict a critical hit nor give any stat boosts. You decide.

The bottom-left chest containing the Titan's Axe had two spikes surrounding it. Push the button and they'll disappear. You'll have to jump down in one of those holes... to find the Fourth tablet! When you walk away though, a demon sent out by Exdeath halts you. Before swords are drawn, though, one of the Eleven of the Rift turns to face the Sea King, Leviathan.

So, now there's Leviathan.
