<a id="s4-47-2"></a>

### 4.47.2. Istory Falls; the battle with Leviathan

**Level:** 37, HP: 40000, MP: 2000 · **Defense:** 25, Magic Defense: 15 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 70% · **Steal:** Nothing (rare), Elixir (common) · **Win:** Reflect Ring (always) · **Absorbs:** Water · **Nullifies:** Earth, Fire · **Weakness:** Lightning · **Creature:** Heavy, Dragon · **Special Technique:** !Tail · **Special Technique Effect:** Adds Sap · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Tail (sets Sap), Entangle, Aqua Breath, Tidal Wave

Leviathan

Leviathan, the Sea King, a promise made to you by the Sealed Tome. You can skip him here no worries; exiting the dungeon and returning will have you find him waiting for you for all eternity. He's an adamant fellow! Leviathan's attacks are simple and brutal. Tidal Wave will deal around 800 to all targets, and he can use it twice in some turns. 1600 damage to a character will likely kill it, so you're either sporting Coral Rings, have a Goliath Tonic applied or, most likely, have Shell active. Entangle still sets Paralyze. Aqua Breath is non-elemental and will punch through Coral Rings, but will only deal between 200 and 300 damage to non-Shelled targets.

It's essential to be able to withstand a dual Tidal Wave attack. Mighty Guard is the best defensive option, but applying Shell through other means is fine and dandy. Sufficiently capable !White casters can cast Shell, and you can use !Mix to create a Dragon Defense potion (Phoenix Down + Dragon Fang). Any character with a Coral Ring will just absorb Tidal Wave, so no Shell is needed. Those characters with Shell active will need to keep their HP above 750 to be able to withstand Leviathan's most powerful onslaught; Golem, Protect and Image are additional protective measures you can apply. One last great defensive mechanism is the Goliath Tonic. Chemists can be turned into damage dealing machines with Equip Harp + Apollo's Harp, !White level 6 paired with a Sage's Staff or !Black 5 to cast Thundaga.

Also consider Leviathan's counter-attacks. Every Magic spell may provoke a Tidal Wave attack 33% of the time. Every other attack, damaging or not, may provoke a 33% Entangle attack. If you're not careful with your spells, you could see more Tidal Waves than even your Shelled characters can handle.

Since Leviathan is a Dragon, Apollo's Harp really hurts the thing. A Berserker with Two-Handed and a Titan's Axe is very powerful as well, as is casting Thundaga off four Reflective targets (or just on Leviathan). You have a lot of offensive and defensive options. Thundaga Spellblade is something to consider as well.

For your optional troubles, you get a guaranteed Reflect Ring and a powerful Water-elemental Summon spell, Leviathan.

Leviathan, as an attack, is very powerful, obviously a fair bit more powerful than Syldra. However, there is the thing of its Water element. There is NO piece of equipment in the game that boosts Water-elemental attacks. Non-boosted, it comes out weaker than boosted Syldra. If you, however, use the Mix Elemental Power (Eye Drops + Holy Water), Leviathan will be the most powerful summon attack in the game.

When you're done, you can Teleport out (or take the waterfall in this very room). Grab the last three of the Legendary Weapons, walk out and go watch the cutscene.
