<a id="s4-49-2"></a>

### 4.49.2. Taking the Black Chocobo; the Phoenix Tower

Opponents: Ankheg (#184), Ammonite (#185), Landcrawler (#186), Lemure (#187), Partenhope (#188), Cherie (#189), Kuza Beast (x) (-), Soul Cannon (x) (-), Liquid Flame (x) (-), Bandercoeurl (x) (-), Magic Pot (#190)

Container contents: 5000 Gil, 10000 Gil, 15000 Gil, 20000 Gil, 25000 Gil, Phoenix Down x 4, Aevis Killer

Miscellaneous items: Defender (rare Landcrawler steal), Reflect Ring (common Lemure steal, rare Parthenope drop), Ribbon (rare Lemure steal), Rainbow Dress (common Parthenope steal), Coral Ring (rare Parthenope steal), Hermes Sandals (rare Cherie drop), Red Slippers (common Cherie steal), Elven Cape (rare Cherie steal), Protect Ring (rare Soul Cannon (x) steal)

Summon spells: Phoenix

Blue spells: 1000 Needles, Pond's Chorus, Roulette, Flash, Aeroga, Lilliputian Lyric, Time Slip, ???

The Phoenix Tower is the place where dragons come to die. It is a 30-story building where succubi of multiple origins hound your steps and even the walls are bent on your destruction. Sounds like fun?

Here's the deal. Most floors will have no visible route upstairs, so you'll have to walk around the main pillar and search the wall there. You'll basically go round and round. The exit will always be both left and right of the middle tile, but one of the stairs is guarded while the other is not. There is a fixed pattern here; I'll give it to you. The guardian is random, but note that the four monsters are NOT the same monster you encountered earlier. They are improved ones. Note that these creatures do not affect your Bestiary; if you missed Bandercoeurl earlier, you can't pick it up here.

Examining the wall is great with characters with !Black, !Spellblade or !Combine, as the three main elements can be put to great use here.

The Bandercoeurl is weak to Fire-elemental attacks and may randomly use a Blaster attack, which either sets Paralyze or Death. It is also a Magic Beast, so Artemis Bow/Beast Killer wielders, rejoice!

Liquid Flame is weak to Water- and Ice-elemental attacks, and may use either Fira, !Ray and Blaze. !Ray will set Paralyze. It will heal itself with Firaga every second out of four turns, but you shouldn't let it come to that.

The new and improved Soul Cannon is most noteworthy because of its rare Protect Ring steal. If you missed the one on Odin, you'll only have three. Not that Protect rings are the most awesome of Accessories, but they are the most defensive overall. Soul Cannon is weak to Lightning-elemental attacks and may use either Missile (75 % current HP damage), Wave Cannon (50 % maximum HP damage to all) and Gamma Rays (sets Stop).

The Kuza Beast has no elemental weaknesses, but is a Magic Beast (also, Heavy) so you could take advantage of that. Kill the Kuza Beast quickly, as it can use the ??? Blue spell that can be very powerful considering Kuza Beast's 10000 HP. A Berserk spell helps; those physical may still pack a punch, but they're nowhere near as dangerous as ??? spells.

iOS/Android: These wall encounters' sprite is halved because the game decides to halve all monster sprites. This is fun where you bring your own monsters in with !Release and later !Oath since their spirtes are halved as well.

1st - 4th Floor: 94 % Lemure, Parenthope 6 % Parenthope, Cherie

The random encounters are all female demons with great items and no status immunities that you can't run from. Dancers or those with Ribbons equipped will have a great advantage as they nullify their many status-related attacks. Angel Rings also help out, since the most dangerous attack used in this building is Danse Macabre, which sets Zombie. Two-Handed or Berserk weapons will often kill a target, and the Man-Eater will also prove to be very powerful (use either !Jump or equip Ribbons on a physically resilient Job). Romeo's Ballad and especially Alluring Air are very awesome. The ladies will often use status ailment attack on themselves, giving you all the time in the world to strike with Syldra and the like. A Dancer with an Air Knife and abundant Syldra conjuring will be a great addition to your team. None of the ladies are Heavy, so Odin performs miracles here.

Lemure is a Humanoid that attacks physically and uses Spore to Poison. When targeted by !Attack, it may respond with either Hug (restores HP to full, sets Petrify) or Pond's Chorus. Carries both Wall Rings and the awesome Ribbon! At a later point in the game, we will be advised to not let its beauty blind us to its sins. Lemures IRL are palm-sized monkeys with the big eyes for the night- seeing; they ain't beautiful, but I'd pay good money to see it commit sins. Note that those Reflect Rings sell for 10.000 Gil a piece. That's easy money!

Parthenope is a Humanoid that attacks physically and randomly uses Roulette to kill a target on the battlefield. Roulette does that. You can learn the attack with Learning and/or Blue Mages, but since its effects are the same when cast by both the enemy and you - and you're probably not too happy when you see the spell cast - you should never ever use it. Parthenope carries the Rainbow Dress and a rare Coral Ring, which is ironic since the original Parthenope from Greek mythology drowned like it was going out of style.

Cherie is the most dangerous opponent. Normally it'll just use Dancehall Daze to set Sleep and random physical attacks, but when struck by !Attack it may use Danse Macabre to turn you into a Zombie. Thriller! Thrillah nights.... Common Red Shoes for stealing, and a rare Elven Cape we'd have killed for earlier in the game. Cross your fingers for a Hermes Sandals drop; even if you don't want to use it, it sells for 25000 Gil.

**Common Steal:** Reflect Ring   Rainbow Dress   Red Shoes · **Rare Steal:** Ribbon         Coral Ring      Elven Cape · **Rare Drop:** Lamia's Harp   Reflect Ring    Hermes Sandals

Lemure Parthenope Cherie

The Rainbow Dress is a Dancer-only piece of equipment that's great on Defense, protects against Confuse and boosts the Sword Dance rate of !Dance and the success of !Flirt, much like the Lamia's Tiara. Dancers should use it over the Black Garb, but if you have a Mirage Vest to spare it's a toss-up. The Red Shoes also boosts !Dance/!Flirt in the same way and have more Defense than the Protect Ring. No Regen and no Magic Defense to speak of, though. Protect Ring still wins unless you want to employ !Dance and want to keep your Ribbon and Mirage Vest. Since the Rainbow Dress is exactly that, a brightly coloured dress, you wonder how Bartz looks in it. Probably a bit like Freddie Mercury.

Ascend the stairs! First, I'll give you the total lay-out of the entire tower, for those people who are just interested in avoiding the monsters and know about the rest already:

**st Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **rd Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

**th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

**th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

**th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

**nd Floor:** Right stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

**th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

For the rest of you good sirs and madams:

**st Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **rd Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

Every fifth floor will hold two urns, or vases, or what you want to call it. One will contain treasure, the other will house a Magic Pot encounter! It'll guard a treasure, but the real gem is the fight itself...

Magic Pot is designed to be fairly unbeatable. It has 65255 HP, maximum Defense and Magic Defense, 95 % Evasion, 99 % Magic Evasion, is Heavy and immune to all status ailments. Inherent Protect and Shell, immunity to !Control and !Catch. The Mute status is set across the fight, so spellcasting is out. All it will ever do is demand Elixirs and completely restore its HP with a nameless move that graphically resembles an Elixir.

Every Elixir you feed them will have them run away 33 % of the time, setting you up with 100 ABP. Some will claim that you're best off using !Mime to duplicate Elixirs, but why would squander the awesome 100 ABP on the Mime, which teaches you nothing except public ridicule? If you feel you want to be holding on to your Elixirs for the most, use the Wonder Wand as an item to cast Return regardless of the Mute status.

I suggest you take the opportunity to give ABP on Jobs that are not nearly as good as the abilities they gave you. Red Mages, Rangers and Dancer come to mind. One thing I like to do is use the total of 500 ABP you'll obtain through Magic Pots in this dungeon to master the Berserker Job for those focusing on spells. By mastering the Berserker Job, you'll have unlocked a very respectable Strenght and Stamina score for those characters when you switch them to the Freelancer Job, and you won't have had to dabble in physical Jobs except for a grand total of five fights. You can do as you like, however.

If you wish to one day actually destroy a Magic Pot, I advise you to leave one alone for now; if you are a better man or woman than you are now, you could take one of with a few very specific set-ups. If you're curious how that could be accomplished, or to see if you could already pull it off, take a gander at

[POT-LINK]

5th - 8th Floor: 94 % Parenthope, Cherie 6 % Cherie, Lemure

On the fifth floor, the left urn contains 5000 Gil, the right urn is a Magic Urn protecting a Phoenix Down underneath. The sixth floor has an open staircase.

9th - 12th Floor: 94 % Cherie, Lemure 6 % Parenthope, Cherie

**th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

On the tenth floor, the left urn contains 10000 Gil, the right urn is a Magic Urn protecting another Phoenix Down. The eleventh floor has an open staircase.

13th - 16th Floor: 94 % Lemure x 3 6 % Lemure, Parenthope

**th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

These Lemure x3 formations are truly great places to bring a Thief. Assuming you take three Reflect Rings from them a fight, that's 30.000 Gil. You'll have all the elemental rings you want in no time at all. On the fifteenth floor, the right urn contains 15000 Gil while the left urn is a Magic Pot. It's sitting on... a Phoenix Down! The sixteenth floor has an open staircase.

17th - 20th Floor: 94 % Parthenope x 3 6 % Cherie, Lemure

**th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

On the twentieth floor, the left urn contains 20000 Gil while the right urn is, in fact, a Magic Pot! It protects a Phoenix Down. The twenty-first floor has an open staircase.

21th - 24th Floor: 94 % Cherie x 3 6 % Parenthope, Cherie

**nd Floor:** Right stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

With almost every encounter features three Cherie enemies, who have a 1/8 chance each to drop Hermes Sandals that cost you 50.000 Gil a pair, you might want to fight a few battles here.

This 25th floor houses the final Magic Pot of the game! The right urn houses 25000 Gil, while the left urn is a Magic Pot protecting an Aevis Killer. How original! If you ever want to kill a Magic Pot, skip the one you can find here. In a shocking twist of events, the floor above an urn floor does not have a visible stairway!

25th - 29th Floor: 94 % Lemure, Partenhope, Cherie 6 % Lemure, Parthenope

**th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Left stairway is safe · **th Floor:** Right stairway is safe

On the twenty-ninth floor, the hidden staircase is right in the middle. On the top of the Phoenix Tower, a touching (and interactive) cutscene awaits you. The choices you make for Lenna's past are irrelevant for the eventual outcome, so I'll just let you go on with it.

Phoenix is a powerful MT Fire-elemental attack, but you may not want to use it just for that; at 99 MP, it's very costly. The target you select is the target of an resurrection spell that restores both HP and MP back to full; the flames of rebirth that purge the battlefield are just a bonus. With Transfusion, you can keep restoring eachothers MP pool forever, so that may be a good way to fix the 99 MP issue.

You will find your party completely restored. You can use Teleport to travel back down the Phoenix Tower in an instant.
