<a id="s4-49-1"></a>

### 4.49.1. Taking the Black Chocobo; the battle with Bahamut

Opponents: Rock Slug (#21), Gaelicat (#22), Cockatrice (#23), Headstone (#24), Ankheg (#184), Ammonite (#185), Landcrawler (#186), Bahamut (#298)

Miscellaneous items: Defender (rare Landcrawler steal), Dragon Fang (rare Bahamut steal, guaranteed Bahamut drop)

Summon spells: Bahamut

Blue spells: Flash, Aqua Breath

I've been to the desert on a bird with no name...

Check your map and see where you parked your Black Chocobo. Take it to the great desert to the north-east. Ignore the tower to the south-west and head up until you find North Mountain.

In the desert, you may find a few new enemies! Ankhegs are reminiscent of the Undergrounder of the Gil Cave; centipedes that use Quake attacks. They do not absorb Earth-elemental attacks like their lesser brethren, and are weak to Ice. Ammonites are mere cannon fodder. Of special note is how neither the Ankhegs nor the Ammonites register as Desert dwellers; Aqua Breath will not go medieval on their asses. Level 3 Flare hits these critters nicely, though.

Landcrawlers only appear to the south of the desert. They have 22000 HP and may use Maelstrom; an MT attack that reduces the target's HP down to a single digit. They have a Special Technique called !Crush, which sets Confuse; watch out for that. They are vulnerable to Death and not Heavy, so Odin, the Death spell and other things of that nature help out. Landcrawlers are immune to Petrify, unlike the Sandcrawlers you could've seen earlier. They have a common Ancient Sword and a rare Defender for the Stealing, if you're still interested at this point.

Ascending the Mountain should be easy. The enemies haven't upgraded since the last time you came here, so something like !Kick should kill everything. The purple flowers are still poisonous, but now you can use Float or Light Step to trample all over them. Bahamut will use an Earth-based attack, so if you for some reason lack the Float spell, you can Control or Confuse a Gaelicat to have it cast Float for you. Use the Save Point. At the summit, where you once found Hiryu, the Wind Drake, you now face a prize you were promised back when you had but a single tablet: Bahamut, god-king of dragons.

**Level:** 99, HP: 40000, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 5%, Magic Evasion: 33% · **Steal:** Dragon Fang (common and rare) · **Win:** Dragon Fang (rare) · **Nullifies:** Earth · **Status:** Float (always) · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Silence, Slow, Stop · **t Evade:** Aerial, Song · **Attacks:** Attack, Aqua Breath, Mega Flare, Poison Breath, Zombie Breath,

Bahamut Maelstrom, Ice Storm, Lightning, Blaze, Earth Shaker, Atomic Rays, Frost

Bahamut has a large array of elemental MT assaults, some of which are more painful than others. Blaze and Lightning basically do the same thing (max HP/4 damage), and the other attacks are just magical attacks you should protect yourselves from with Mighty Guard (or, lacking that, Shell). Of special notice are Maelstrom and Mega Flare. He will use his powerful attacks depending on his current amount of HP:

< 40000: Mega Flare < 35000: Atomic Rays, Frost < 30000: Blaze, Earth Shaker < 25000: Aqua Breath, Lightning < 20000: Maelstrom, Ice Storm < 15000: Poison Breath, Zombie Breath < 10000: Mega Flare

Maelstrom is just a pain in the neck. Shell status and Aegis Shields will make it miss often, but it's a dangerous move when it connects as it'll drop your character's HP to a single digit. Mega Flare will deal over 2000 damage to all targets. You must either make sure he never gets to use it, or make it bounce off from the Reflect status. Bahamut will start using Mega Flare when he has 10000 HP or less, so that's doable. When reflected from four targets, he'll deal 9999 damage to himself, ending the battle right there.

Defensively, calling on Carbuncle or Reflect Rings is not a bad idea; Mega Flare and Atomic Ray are helped out by it, and you can cast Firaga and the like on yourselves for increased damage output. Ice Shields help against Ice Storm, Frost, Atomic Ray and Blaze; they're grand. Bahamut, when undamaged, will only use physical attacks, Atomic Ray and Frost. When suitable protected from these attacks by a combination of Golem and Ice Shields/Flame Shields/Dragon Shield (the Mix potion), you can start buffing if you like since you're immortal. Shell is good (Mighty Guard is quicker), Dragon Kiss helps against Maelstrom.

Bahamut is NOT a Dragon, sadly, so Apollo's Harp, Dragon's Whisker and Dragon Cannon (!Combine) are out. Useful tactics include Hastega, Mighty Guard, Golem and Carbuncle (that order, where applicable), then have a Hasted character continuously use Romeo's Balad to keep Bahamut's heart at ease while you slaughter him. Big damage dealers include Two-Handed or Berserk Brave Blade/Titan's Axe/Rune Blade wielders, !Gaia's Cave-In (which won't appear all the time), Sword Dance with a powerful weapon (wear a Lamia's Tiara), you name it. If you deem it unfair that Bahamut is not a Dragon, you can make it so (number one) with the Dragon Kiss (Dragon Fang + Maiden's Kiss) and exploit his faux Dragon nature.

Bahamut is the strongest summon spell in the game! It's barrier-piercing and non-elemental, and thus not capable of being boosted. It's about as powerful as boosted Syldra, but not as powerful as boosted Leviathan. Boosted Leviathan is a hassle though, what with the in-battle preparation and all.

As you can see, we now have all spells except for two. We're missing a single Blue spell (if you kept up) and a single Summon spell. Let's get them!
