<a id="s4-5-1"></a>

### 4.5.1. The lands of Carwen

Opponents: Gatling (#16), Big Horn (#17), Tatou (#18), Garula (#20)

Near Ship Graveyard and Carwen: 35 % Gatling 35 % Gatling x 2, Big Horn 23 % Tatou x 2 6 % Big Horn, Gatling, Tatou

Forest around North Mountain: 35 % Tatou x 2 35 % Big Horn, Gatling, Tatou 23 % Tatou x 2, Gatling 6 % Big Horn x 2

When you exit the Ship Graveyard, you'll find yourselves on solid land again. Your destination lies to the south, but the journey is not without its perils...

Gatlings will normally just Attack, but if you hit them with an Attack of your own they'll counter with !Needle, a more powerful physical attack. They'll rarely drop the Gold Needles you so sorely missed versus the Undead Husks.

Big Horns attack with Attack and (shocker) !Horn, which is a more powerful physical attack. If you hit them with a Fire-elemental attack they survive, they'll use Flee immediately to leave the battlefield.

Tatou are big ugly lizards weak to Ice-elemental attacks. That about covers it. They drop Tents.

Note that on the small patch west of Carwen, you can meet Garula, a passive massive non-aggressive tapir. Even though he doesn't attack you, he has a Bestiary entry so you'll probably want to beat him up. The lovable oaf appearing here could be considered a bug, since he should really just be found in another area; take your chagrin over this fact out on the helpless creature.

Oh yeah, the walkthrough. Carwen's to the south; just stick to the coastal line to the west and you'll see it no problem.
