<a id="s4-5-2"></a>

### 4.5.2. The town of Carwen

Container contents: 1000 Gil, Antidote, Frost Rod

Features: Piano

Carwen is an entirely uninteresting black hole of a town, but at least they're playing Harvest Hoedown, so that's a plus. Now I was just informed by Merriam- Webster that a Hoedown is a kind of square dance; and here I always thought of prostitutes whenever I came across the term. Yeah, it sure is funny having a foreign writer...

- **Item Shop:**
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Tent                 250 Gil
  - Yeah, 's shtuff. You could buy some Eye Drops, and make sure to buy some Gold
  - Needles as the monsters in the upcoming dungeon have the power of petrification.

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Dagger               300 Gil
  - Long Sword           480 Gil
  - Rod                  200 Gil
  - Staff                200 Gil
  - Your Knight(s) will really enjoy the upgrade in offensive power when you buy a
  - new sweet Long Sword for them. At least they're no longer carrying the weakest
  - sword in the game, eh? Your Blue Mages are less of a necessity to put a better
  - sword on, but you'll like the increase in Goblin Punch power.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Bronze Shield        290 Gil
  - Bronze Helmet        250 Gil
  - Bronze Armor         400 Gil
  - Copper Cuirass       350 Gil
  - Cotton Robe          300 Gil
  - It's fairly straightforward as to what to buy for which characters.
  - Everything's flat-out better than Leather equipment so check your current Jobs
  - and give them their suited defensive upgrade. The only point of debate is your
  - Blue Mage, which I'd rather give a Copper Cuirass than a Cotton Robe. Even
  - though the Cotton Robe is better on statistics (+ 2 Defense and + 4 Magic
  - Defense to + 3 Defense and + 2 Magic Defense of the Copper Cuirass) the enemies
  - in this part will use physical attacks only so Defense is more important.

- **Magic Shop:**
  - Fire                 150 Gil
  - Blizzard             150 Gil
  - Thunder              150 Gil
  - Sleep                300 Gil
  - Cure                 180 Gil
  - Poisona               90 Gil
  - Silence              280 Gil
  - Protect              280 Gil
  - The new spells for sale here are Sleep for your Black Magic spellbook and
  - Silence and Protect for your White casters. There's no reason to skip them
  - here, especially since all three spells will be valuable to you in both the
  - near and the far future.

Take a nap at the Inn if you're so inclined to restore from your long journey through the Ship Graveyard. Now, walk around town and work your Chosen Warrior magic; talk to NPCs and find the hidden items. There's an Antidote in one of the five barrels to the south of the Pub (this one: 0x000). A much more important treasure is the Frost Rod. Stand in front of the Pub sign and walk all the way down until you can't go any further; now, go left and down until you reach the far bottom crate containing an Frost Rod.

The Frost Rod is one of the decent amount of weapons that give a damage increase to a specific element. This one boosts Ice (you're kidding!) by 50 %, making the Black Mage a superior offensive caster than the White Mage (since the Black Mage can equip it) and making the Ice spell the superior attack unless the target is weak to Fire or Bolt. Always keep track of what elemental rod you're carrying and cast accordingly, as 150 % damage is really sweet.

The menu says that the Rod will sometimes cast the Blizzaga spell. This is grade-A balloney! The Rod can be used as an Item from the menu (when held, open 'Item' and press UP, you must equip it) to release all the Ice magic from the Rod and scatter a Blizzaga spell across the screen, destroying the Rod in the process. Blizzaga spells are really powerful, but now that the Frost Rod is still a luxury item it's not worth it to break it in combat.

Let's get the story rollin'. Talk to the green-haired lady to the south of the Pub, who'll tell you what we already know; there's the Kingdom of Walse to the south, a country amplifying the Water Crystal much like how Tycoon amplified the Wind Crystal. If we don't stop them soon it might just break on us, so we need to get there ASAP. However, we can't go by sea without Syldra or the wind.

And we can't go by land or sea...

Talking to the dock workers will have Bartz wondering about this constantly.

There's now another green-haired woman near the Pub who talks about her husband. Enter the Pub. There's a new piano here! Play it, you still suck. If you have someone with the Find Passages support ability (Thieves have this ability inherently), you can see a hidden passage leading to a secret room to the far left of the Pub's ground floor. In here, the top grey pot contains 1000 Gil. You can also get behind the bar this way, but there's nothing there for you. Now, go to the top floor to find the man who raves about flying dragons. He raves about flying dragons! It must be Tycoon's Wind Drake as all other Wind Drake are extinct. A plan is quickly devised. Poisonous purple plants or not, we must find the Wind Drake so that we can travel to Walse.

Make sure to drop by the Item Shop and purchase a few Gold Needle items.

Leave the town of Carwen and travel north to North Mountain where the Wind Drake is supposedly residing.
