<a id="s4-50-1"></a>

### 4.50.1. Wrapping Things Up; How to Kill Fiends and Mutilate People

Remember, there is no such thing as 'needed'. To my knowledge, single Job challenges have all made it to the end (all Berserkers, a single White Mage, there is no limit to the amount of self-depravation mankind is capable of), so you really don't need anything. However, the following things are awesome to have or, if not, to shoot for from now on:

The Ninja's Dual-Wield is great for those characters that focus on weapons. Remember that Knights and Gladiators can use the Defender as a second weapon to score some physical evasion, and the Ninja can use Sasuke's Katana for that purpose. The Main Gauche is too weak to consider now. !Rapid Fire is your best option versus single targets.

You should have all spells. This is not that big a deal except for Blue for which a full list really isn't necessary to have a full list of (Doom and Roulette are quite useless). The Mighty Guard spell will come in real handy in the upcoming ordeal. Make sure to pack at least Arise and Hastega.

Bestiary (79%): Normal enemies: #87, #123 - #190 Aquatic enemies: #191 - #203 Boss enemies: #283 - #298

You could've chosen to neglect obtaining the Mime Job and avoid facing Famed Mimic Gogo just now; if so, you will have an explainable hole at #297.

Just for funsies, version 3, here's an example of one of my teams at the moment:

Bartz:

LV 6 Knight *** LV 4 Monk LV 1 Dragoon LV 5 Ninja *** LV 4 Samurai LV 1 Berserker LV 2 Ranger LV 6 Mystic Knight *** LV 3 Blue Mage LV 3 Cannoneer ***

Bartz can punch, slice and stab with whatever weapon he sees fit. Due to the attention going to obtaining !Combine, !Rapid Fire isn't here yet. Bartz can, however, set Dual Wield to any Job he chooses, and use !Spellblade 6 when he so chooses. If he needs an MT attack, needs to set a status or exploit a Creature Type, !Combine is there. !Blue is also present for when I want to.

Lenna:

LV 1 Ranger LV 6 White Mage LV 6 Black Mage LV 6 Time Mage LV 5 Summoner LV 3 Blue Mage LV 3 Red Mage LV 2 Geomancer LV 2 Chemist LV 3 Bard *** LV 2 Dancer

Lenna has mastered !White, !Black, !Time, !Summon and !Blue and can mix and match spelllists however I see fit. She lacks !Dualcast at this moment, but is almost there.

Krile:

LV 3 Thief LV 1 Ranger LV 6 White Mage LV 6 Black Mage LV 6 Time Mage LV 5 Summoner LV 3 Blue Mage LV 4 Red Mage *** LV 2 Chemist LV 1 Geomancer LV 3 Bard *** LV 2 Oracle

Due to Krile being around in the Pyramid, she has somewhat of an ABP edge over Lenna. She's the same, only she has mastered !Dualcast and is, therefor, more or less done as far as spellcasting goes. Thief and Oracle levels mark the start of her ability score optimization.

Faris:

LV 7 Monk *** LV 6 Thief LV 5 Ninja *** LV 1 Berserker LV 4 Ranger *** LV 3 Beastmaster LV 1 Summoner LV 3 Blue Mage

Berserk was learned; it's a great booster for Monk and Ranger. Faris has learned to Dual Wield and use !Rapid Fire, but lacks !Spellblade as far as that ancient time-honored broken combo goes. The funky Summoner level is there for boosting the Berserker's Gaia Hammer and Rune Axe :p The Thief is about ready to be mastered; with Monk present, all that's left is mastering Oracle for best stats across the board.

If you take the airshupmarine to Mr. Clio the psychic friend who lives in a pineapple under the sea south of Karnak, he *should* tell you that you obtained 68% of all treasures if you followed this walkthrough faithfully. If you chose to let a single Magic Pot live to pound its whacky face in in the future, that number will be 67%, so don't be alarmed.

Anyway, what you might possibly need before entering the Rift and putting a stop to Exdeath's destructive plans once and for all are items. Ninja Scrolls can be bought in the Phantom Village, you can get ammo for !Combine in either Karnak, Crescent or Bal Castle and all other items should be lying all over the place.

When you're ready, you know where to go. The Void, bane of all that is, opened up over Castle Tycoon. The Void ripped itself free from the constraints of the Interdimensional Rift, a place created when the world was divided to conquer the Void. Here, in this alien place, Exdeath has retreated, working relentlessly to command the Void even further. Within the Interdimensional Rift, an unknown number of demons and other evil creatures have been locked away, all promised freedom by Exdeath.
