<a id="s4-51-4"></a>

### 4.51.4. Interdimensional Rift; the Cave

Opponents: Drippy (#100), Lycaon (#101), Poison Eagle (#103), Zombie Dragon (#104), Metamorph (#114), Orukat (#211), Great Dragon (#212), Achelon (#213), Golem (#271), Omega (#311)

Container contents: Coral Ring, Angel Ring

Miscellaneous items: Dark Matter (common Orukat steal), Dragon Fang (common Great Dragon steal, rare Great Dragon drop), Turtle Shell (common Achelon steal), Staff of Light (rare Metamorph drop), Omega Medal (guaranteed Omega drop)

Summon spells: Golem

Blue spells: Flame Thrower, Flash, Vampire, Magic Hammer

"And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of the earth, for fear of the Light Warriors, and for the glory of their majesty, when they arise to shake terribly the earth." - Isaiah

First room 35 % Orukat x4 35 % Achelon x3 23 % Great Dragon 6 % Zombie Dragon, Poison Eagle, Drippy

Waterfall room

35 % Orukat x2, Achelon

35 % Great Dragon, Achelon, Orukat

23 % Achelon x3

**6 % Golem, Bone Dragon, Zombie Dragon > Lycaon x5**

Third room 35 % Great Dragon 35 % Orukat x4 23 % Achelon x3 6 % Metamorph (Ramuh, Crew Dust, Zombie Dragon)

First off, note that in the second room of this cave, Golem can be found if you missed his rocky ass in Drakenvale earlier. It's the rarest encounter there. If you did manage to register that you recruited Golem, that rare formation will be contain five Lycaon cats.

Orukat are the evil blobs of eyes, rising to meet your determined stare. Their gaze may petrify; they can use Evil Eye when alone, which sets Petrify. They have wonky elemental attributes (absorb Holy, weak to Water and Earth) but have a common Dark Matter steal so that's all good. This is the easiest Dark Matter source in the game, and given its beneficial nature when used with !Mix or !Combine, farming them is a good thing. Just lay off the Excalibur, Holy Lance and Holy spells.

Great Dragon is neither Dragon nor Heavy. Boo! Fraud! It uses Blaze and Flame Thrower alongside physical attacks to damage, and may counter any non-spell (!Black, !White, !Time, !Blue or !Summon) with an Earthquake attack. Setting Float is easier than treading carefully around his humongous ass. You can steal common Dragon Fangs from him... open wide buddy, here comes the tooth fairy's evil twin brother, and he don't leave no coins... (unless you use !Zeninage). Weak to Water as well.

Speaking of evil twin brothers, meet Catoblepas'! He's called Achelon. Attacks physically, counters damage with Evil Eye, done. Common Turtle Shell for stealing, and nobody knows why or how.

This is an easy dungeon! Set Float to make sure the Great Dragon's Earthquake attack fails, and summon Leviathan to wash away all your troubles. All three enemies here are weak to the element. Thieves are nice to farm !Mix and !Combine consumables; the Aegis Shield and Ribbon protect against the Evil Eye attacks you shouldn't encounter at all. The Great Dragon will probably survive a single Tidal Wave; just do whatever to it to finish it, it's not Heavy and vulnerable to Mini and Toad.

Descend the stairs to find yourself in the main room where water streams down the rocks. The random encounters here'd better be careful! Continue to find an entrance. Go past it, and stand under the waterfall to the right. Go up to find a hidden entrance to a chest containing an Angel Ring. Nice! Head back, and find the entrance again. Go in it! That's the purpose of an entrance. You can also skip it and slide down the waterfall in the back, but you'd miss out on a Save Point and a chest. You see a thing of darkness down below; we'll get there.

Find a chest with a Coral Ring, go down to find a Save Point. Cottage and Save up, then appear out of the entrance to find a timeless weapon without a soul, OMEGA. You can try to defeat it now, but you'll need some specific strategies (in short, !Rapid Fire, Dual Wield and !Spellblade 5 to 6 in a single character). If you want to fight the technological abomination, you can do so:

"The roiling skies let loose a vile beast without a soul; Omega was its name."

[OMEGA-LINK]

In a normal game, you're more likely to want to pass it up right now, it's in no way mandatory. If you never face the thing, you'll never engage it. Flee past it to reach the exit of the cave and... a library?
