<a id="s4-51-2"></a>

### 4.51.2. Interdimensional Rift; the Ruins

Opponents: Ronkan Knight (#63), Stone Mask (#64), Enchanted Fan (#65), Lamia (#66), Archeotoad (#67), Ghidra (#69), Grenade (#204), Baldanders (#205), Death Dealer (#206), Level Checker (#207)

Container contents: Blood Sword, Cottage, Dark Matter, Elixir x2, Ether

Miscellaneous items: Rune Chime (rare Baldanders drop), Angel Ring (rare Baldanders steal), Flame Shield (rare Grenade steal), Elixir (rare Level Checker drop)

Blue spells: Self-Destruct, Roulette, Aeroga, Level 5 Death, Level 4 Graviga, Level 3 Flare, Level 2 Old

"My name is Enuo, king of kings: look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" Nothing beside remains. Round the decay of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare. The lone and level ruins stretch far away." - a Russian poem

Few facts are mentioned about the Ancient Ronka civilization, though we know that 1000 years ago they were the ones to conquer Enuo with the twelve now- legendary weapons and that a branch still existed until a short time ago, when the Ronka city was forcibly lift up in the air to hasten the shattering of the Earth Crystal. And now, we encounter a part of their culture in the Inter- dimensional Rift; what does this portend?

Chain drop-off, first room: 59 % Grenade x2, Death Dealer 35 % Baldanders, Level Checker 6 % Ghidra

Three chains room 35 % Level Checker x4 35 % Baldanders x2, Grenade 23 % Baldanders, Level Checker 6 % Enchanted Fan, Ronkan Knight x2

Third room 35 % Level Checker x2, Grenade 35 % Death Dealer x2, Level Checker, Baldanders 23 % Level Checker x4 6 % Archeotoad x3

Exit chain room... three whole tiles! 35 % Baldanders 35 % Death Dealer x4 23 % Baldanders x2, Grenade 6 % Lamia, Stone Mask x2

As you can see, every rare formation is a blast from the past; formations from the flying Ruins of Ronka, in this case. This is something you'll see more often in the other area's of the Interdimensional Rift as well. I will not discuss these simple monsters.

The Grenades will simply attack physically, but beware of casting spells; any Blue, White, Black, Time or Summon spell will be countered by Self-Destruct. They are vulnerable to all status ailments except for the sprite- altering ones, so use it to your advantage. You can nab a rare Flame Shield if you can Steal.

There are Enchanted Fan upgrades here, and they're called Baldanders. They may randomly use Aeroga every turn, so beware; halt their assault with any status ailment you can think of as they won't be immune. They're great with the items; common Turtle Shell steal, rare Angel Ring, rare Rune Chime drop!

The Rune Chime is the best weapon for Freelancer mages, as it boosts both the elements of the Magus Rod (Fire, Ice, Lightning, Poison, Earth, Wind) but also Holy. This makes it the best option for anybody combining !Black and !White, or using !Combine or !Predict. In addition, its damage formula functions like an Axe; it works when Mute is in effect (as opposed to the Diamond Bell) and deals half damage from the Back Row. When a Freelance mage has the Strength of a Monk, the Rune Chime will even be a formidable physical attack! Note that Mimes cannot equip the thing, so that's too bad for them.

Death Dealer is a Heavy Humanoid, halting clever Odin usage right there :( They'll use Roulette all the freaking time, which blows. Silence, Toad and Berserk stop this nonsense.

Level Checker is a creature you could've encountered earlier, in the sunken tower of Walse. It checks your level, then disregards that information and drives into walls. Seriously, it does not modify its level-based attacks at all, it's just curious or something. It will then cast either Level 5 Death, Level 4 Graviga, Level 3 Flare or Level 2 Old on the target it used Search on. Search can be Reflected! When Level Checkers are tricked into casting the spells on each other, only Level 2 Old and Level 3 Flare will do something. It may rarely drop an Elixir. At 5000 HP and no elemental weakness, they can linger... fortunately they're not Heavy, so Odin takes care of your problems.

All things here are vulnerable to Confuse and Stop, so anyone with the !Sing ability can really help out. Odin can kill everything except those blasted Death Dealers, which is another thing to remember. Boosted Syldra cleans major house when Odin would just throw his lame Gungnir. If you walk around with Reflect Rings, you'll be protected from Level Checkers and Baldanders' Aeroga; Bone Mail helps against Roulette (the attack will fully heal the 'undead' target). Mostly though, I find it works best to have two Air Knife characters summoning Syldra while sporting Hermes Sandals. They'll have obliterated every encounters in this dungeons before they can cast whatever.

Hop on and off the chain to lower yourself into the ruins. The room you enter contains a few chests; an Ether to the left and a Cottage to the right. Pass through two doors and find two more chests containing an Elixir and some Dark Matter. Leave the room.

This new room takes you to three ever-revolving chains; the right-most one takes you to a chest containing another Elixir. Ignore the middle one and take the left-most chain to get to the exit of this room. If you wish to obtain one or more Rune Chimes, this is the room with the highest odds of running into Baldanders, so there you go.

The third room has you facing two stairs; take the right stairway to see a chest containing a Blood Sword. Take the other stairway to find another revolving chain; it'll take you out of these ruins and into... the Phantom Village?

You can't talk to the NPCs, or draw hilarious genitalia on their faces or anything, so that's a bore. You can't shop, sleep in beds, do anything. You can drink from the grey pot with healing water though, so you're fully restored! Keep on going; you can't play the piano, you can't take the Thief Knife (since the bartender blocks your path), you can't even interact with the crate in the Armor Shop to open up the path to the second Armor Shop. Boring, boring. Leave this place only to find yourself in the forest... not too surprising, since the Phantom Village in the timestream also rested amidst the trees.
