<a id="s4-51-8"></a>

### 4.51.8. Interdimensional Rift; the Last Floor

Opponents: King Behemoth (#221), Crystal Dragon (#222), Necromancer (#223), Gorgimera (#224), Mindflayer (#225), Crystelle (#226), Belphegor (#227), Mover (#228), Gilgamesh (#307), Necrophobe (#308), Barrier (#309), Gilgamesh (#310), Shinryu (#312), Exdeath (#313)

Container contents: Elixir, Fuma Shuriken x3, Ragnarok

Miscellaneous items: Elixir (common Necrophobe steal, Blood Sword (rare King Behemoth steal), Dragon Lance (rare Crystal Dragon steal), Bone Mail (rare Necromancer steal), Aegis Shield (rare Gorgimera steal), Main Gauche (rare Mindflayer steal), Rising Sun (rare Belphegor steal), Ice Shield (rare Belphegor drop), Genji Shield (common Gilgamesh steal), Thief's Gloves (rare Necrophobe steal), Reflect Ring (rare Barrier steal), Genji Armor (common Gilgamesh steal), Dragon's Whisker (rare Shinryu steal), Dragon Seal (guaranteed Shinryu drop), Wonder Rod (rare Exdeath steal)

Blue spells: ???, Transfusion, Mind Blast, Flash, Roulette, Mighty Guard, Level 2 Old, Level 3 Flare

"That is, for Zen Buddhism, the term,

E M P T Y

does not refer to any particular

STATE

Rather, it seems that Zen understands 'Empty' as something like

THE ARDOR OF BE-ING

that guarantees the perpetual appearance and disappearance of whatever is."

...

Hey, it's the last floor. Here is where the Void is sealed. Crystalline islands are floating in a vacuum. This is the center of the Interdimensional Rift, where the most powerful and most evil creatures were sucked in. Best be on our guard; this is where Exdeath is waiting for you, confident you'll never even reach it while it gains ever-increasing mastery of the powers of all-consuming nothing.

THIS is where all vile beings go that fall victim to Banish spells. This place is so far removed from the normal world, your Teleport spells fail to take you back now; you'll have to walk to the eldritch teleport zone you arrived with.

Best be on our guard.

First floor: 35 % King Behemoth 35 % King Behemoth x2 23 % Crystal Dragon 6 % Belfegor, Belfegor

King Behemoth are towering... well, they're behemoths. As if they were living embodiment of the deadly sin of sloth, they won' do a lot normally; every third out of four turns, they'll attack physically, which is admittedly quite painful. These creatures are dangerous because of their counter-attacks; every spell is countered with a Meteo spell, every other damaging attack is countered by either a normal physical or !Critical Attack, which deals 150% damage. They're weak to Water-elemental attacks, but it shouldn't concern you; you'd rather not damage these things. They've vulnerable to Death and Petrify, and are not Heavy, so Break Spellblade effects, Catblepas, Odin or even Death Claw (Paralyze stops the counter-Meteo) is the answer to the problem they pose. Odin is probably not wise though, since whenever he chooses the spear over the sword, King Behemoth will counter with a Meteo spell. They may rarely drop a Twin Lance and you can steal a rare Blood Sword from them, but I can't imagine you're swooning over either one at this point of the game.

Crystal Dragon is likely this dungeon's most formidable opponent. Sitting at 17500 HP, absorbing Fire, Ice, Lightning and Wind-elemental attacks, Heavy, the works. It has Regen set when it starts the battle as well. It attacks with Breath Wing 66% of the time, else the shiny dragon will attack physically at which it is quite proficient. It's major weakness is Death, which it is vulnerable to; With 50% Magic Evasion, it's difficult to set though. Death Potions are awesome naturally, but you may not have !Mix or the resources to toss one at every Crystal Dragon that crosses your path. If you can't set Death, it's still a Dragon; Apollo's Harp, Dragon Lances and Dragon's Whiskers really help out. Speaking of Dragon Lances, it's this monster's rare Steal; if you find yourself lacking them after the Jura Aevis encounters, this is your only place to find them.

Oh yeah, you can remove their Float status with Dispel, like with the Elm Gigas. So useless... At least it'll remove the Regen status as well.

Belphegor is not as dangerous as the King Behemoths and Crystal Dragons, but dangerous nonetheless. They attack physically only, no problem. They're Magic Beasts, so the Artemis Bow kills them dead; as does Level 5 Death by the way, they're level 55. They may rarely drop Ice Shields and have rare Rising Suns if you want more than one. They're not Heavy, destroy them any way you like (but not Earth-elemental attacks, it heals them).

On this first floor you should have both a single character being able to summon Odin and another one being able to chuck Death Potions. You'll breeze through easily on your way to Exdeath.

On the first floor, you'll find yourself in a wide, open space. It's a crystal island floating in space, but luckily there's breathing possibilities. There's a chest you can see containing a Fuma Shuriken. Also, a familiar face might just be resting in the middle of an eldritch warp zone...

**Level:** 59, HP: 37000, MP: 0 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 35 · **Evasion:** 5%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Genji Shield (common) · **Win:** Rune Bow (rare) · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **Attacks:** Attack

Gilgamesh

Note: obviously, if you didn't open the Excalipoor chest in Exdeath's Castle back in the day, Gilgamesh was never banished to the Interdimensional Rift and he won't be here, nor will he make any other future appearance. This is basic causality, no need to get worried.

That stat block is merely for curiosity; note that you'll likely never get to see the Rune Bow drop. Gilgamesh is frightened, and in his panic attacks all monsters in sight to drive them away. At first, he will not recognize you:

Have at thee, vile beast! Take this! Rahhh!

After taking away over 7000 HP, he'll pause for a moment to reflect on his position and recognize you. He'll blather for a while, then run off to the exit, into the Dimension Castle. Gilgamesh seems to have no ill intent now that his master Exdeath has betrayed him by banishing him here.

Before starting his exit speech, you'll want to get his Genji Shield, the only location for one in this fine game. It's the Shield with the best Defense in the game and protects against Paralyze and Mini, so it has that going for it. Note that since Mini doubles Evade%, combining the Mini status with a Genji Shield will give the character perfect (99%) Evade. Since the Genji Shield protects against the status, set Mini first (or outside of battle), then apply Genji Shield.

Note that it's possible to kill Gilgamesh here; you'll have to deal him over 30000 HP damage between two of his turns. An example of accomplishing this would include Slow, using a Dragon Kiss to set the Dragon nature, then have two Dragoons Dual-Wielding Dragon Lances use !Jump. You'll get 15 Gil and a rare Rune Bow for your trouble, and you affect *nothing*; Gilgamesh will still leave for the exit after the fight is over.

Second floor: 35 % Necromancer, Gorgimera 35 % Gorgimera x2 23 % Belphegor x2 6 % Mover x3

Necromancers totally suck. They attack physically half the time, but nobody cares about that; no, they use an attack called Zombie Powder the other half of the time, and that's just an unblockable attack that sets Zombie. Not even Ribbons protect against Zombie, only Angel Rings do. Best to take them out of the fight ASAP; !Control helps, as does any status ailment as long as you manage to land it past their Magic Evasion of 50%. They're Undead, so Requiem really hurts them. The best way to slay them, I find, is Break spellblade effects since it bypasses the Protect and Shell counters they employ. Apollo's Harp is another option. They have a rare Bone Mail for you to steal; you can do some nice things with a party draped in Bone Mail so getting three extra isn't a bad idea if you want to go into the bonus dungeon later.

Gorgimera attack physically normally, but resort to MT magical attacks when they're alone. Atomic Ray, Frost and... Electrocute. You remember Electrocute? From the Octokraken, when you were level 5 or something? Who still uses this. Gorgimera, this is the FINAL DUNGEON. Focus. Gorgimera is not Heavy and weak to Water, so Summoners can choose between Odin and Leviathan. Check this; they have a rare Aegis Shield for you to steal! You want an Aegis Shield on every character not Dual-Wielding and you likely don't have enough, so take your chances here.

Movers are where it's at, since they give you 150000 Gil and 199 ABP when you kill them. They're difficult to take down though; this is not so much a fight where you brawl for survival, more like a race to see if you can kill them before they run from you. Movers have 10000 HP, are Heavy and Undead and are immune to both Petrify and Death. They're weak to Fire-elemental attacks. To kill them, Requiem, Flame Scrolls, Firaga and the costly Phoenix can really help out. If you Control one, it'll be able to use Transfusion, killing it (while restoring a character). Slowga works fine; they don't have a lot of Magic Evasion and you really want to keep them from acting as long as possible.

If you leave them alone, here's what will happen. Movers don't do anything, except one of them will use a Delta Attack or a physical attack, and the formation will switch. The new formation will just be three Movers; 'new' Movers will have a current HP based on a random Mover alive at the time of the shift. Bug? Possibly, it certainly seems strange. Anyway, when a Mover gets a turn now, it'll just terminate the battle; no ABP or Gil for you.

Anyway, where you really wanted !Mix on a character the previous floor, you'll really appreciate !Sing on this one; Requiem works great versus both Necromancers and Movers and can set Stop to both Gorgimera and Belfegor while you wait for Odin to come (or your other characters to kill them with damage). Since so many nice things can be stolen here, a Thief is a sweet deal; you'll want to master Thief on all characters anyway for that awesome Agility, and that 199 ABP Mover formation really helps out in that direction. Equip all the Angel Rings you have, you'll want to face Necromancers without having to worry about Zombie Powder.

The path for you to take is quite obvious. You'll come across another chest containing yet another Fuma Shuriken, and a chest with an Elixir in it. Notice how you pass a root on your way? Exdeath's influence can already be seen.

Third floor: 35 % Mindflayer, Crystelle x2 35 % Mindflayer x4 23 % Crystal Dragon 6 % Belphegor, Crystelle x2, Mindflayer

Mindflayers are the intelligent demons with an appetite for minds, which they extract with Mind Blast. Their hearts must be blacker than black for them to only live here. They're very annoying to kill, since they have no elemental weaknesses and are Heavy. They have no status immunities, but a Magic Evasion of 66%, which is quite high. Break Spellblade effects + !Bladeblitz takes them all out, but I dunno if you have it. They'll randomly attack with physical violence or Mind Blast and will counter any damage done with a 66% shot at Mind Blast. Mind Blast is Reflectable, so if the Paralyze is getting you down, Carbuncle can help out. The Genji Shield, Genji Gloves and Hermes Sandals make a character immune to Paralyze, so those help out.

**Intermezzo:** we are later told that the Mindflayer's magical strength is nothing

to make light of. Not terribly inclined to respect authority of any kind, here is a list of magical power jokes and insults:

"Hwah! You tentacle-faced losers couldn't Mind Blast your way out of a paper bag filled with magic!"

"I'll have you know I've got half a mind to stab you right in the tentacle! Unrelated query; could I have the other half back?"

"Mind, your own business", a support group for hapless Mindflayer victims.

"Fighting these fiends is a no-brainer!"

"Don't hate the Flayer, hate the game!"

We will now return to our normal schedule.

Crystelle is a sentient piece of the landscape. I guess, I dunno. It absorbs all elements, has an Evasion of 50% and a Magic Evasion of 30%, has 50 Defense but 0 Magic Defense. It also has 3 HP. Goblin Punch, Sylph, !Aim, it's easy. You can Catch one for it to use Mighty Guard upon Release, but Blue Mages can't learn anything from Released monsters so that's just interesting for when you're doing a challenge of some sort.

On this floor, Mindflayers are your biggest conern; boosted Syldra and !Zeninage are quite adept at taking them out. Summoners are also great versus the Crystelles; Sylph makes short work of them while healing you a bit as a fringe benefit. Any person with !Mix can help against the Crystal Dragons that re-appear on this floor.

This next floor has you pass a stairway leading down to a chest. This is where Shinryu has its lair, a dragon too powerful even for the Ancients with the Legendary Weapons to subdue. It was sealed here ages ago, and now guards a chest with the Ragnarok, a sword more powerful than even Excalibur. I do not talk about him now, rather would have you best him at a later date; if you want to grapple with the God-Dragon now, here's your destiny:

[SHINRYU-LINK]

Continue up above to find a chest with... a Fuma Shuriken! Press on, ever on, to the nearest warp zone. This is a straightforward part of the game, lemme tell you. Near the chest, there is a branch of a great tree...

Fourth floor: 35 % Crystelle, Necromancer, Mindflayer 35 % Gorgimera, King Behemoth 23 % Belphegor, Crystelle x2, Mindflayer 6 % Mover x3

Here, those with !Sing can Confuse the Mindflayers and seriously harm the Necromancers and Movers; those with !Summon can summon Odin to kill Gorgimeras and King Behemoths as well as destroy Crystelles. Break spellblade effects can be used versus all enemies except the Movers and the Crystelles.

Roots are intertwined throughout the crystal, and you are walking to the source of this overgrowth... to the left of of this room is a bright green light, which is guarded by the most powerful and last surviving member of the Eleven of the Rift; the immortal, Necrophobe... Send a Thief.

**Level:** 66, HP: 44044, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 50, Magic Defense: 50 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 75% · **Steal:** Thief's Gloves (rare), Elixir (common) · **Win:** Luminous Robe (rare) · **Weakness:** Fire, Ice, Lightning, Poison, Wind, Earth, Water, Holy · **Status:** Invulnerable · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Vacuum Wave · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5, Adds Sap · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Vacuum Wave, Death, Hurricane

Necrophobe

**Level:** 44, HP: 8800, MP: 300 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Reflect Ring (rare), Hi-Potion (common) · **Nullifies:** Earth · **Status:** Reflect (always) · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Silence, Slow, Stop · **Attacks:** Firaga, Blizzaga, Thundaga, Flare, Holy

Barrier (x4)

Necrophobe is an invincible target. He'll never take damage or any effect from anything, and you cannot target him manually. Any attack that will randomly select a target will also target Necrophobe, but it will never do anything. Things that randomly target an enemy include:

!Rapid Fire !Release !Animals !Gaia !Call !Oath Berserked characters The Meteor spell Reflected spells

Any of these attacks may randomly target Necrophobe and thus have no effect at all. MT effects will always include Necrophobe, but will have no effect on Necrophobe. Okay, I think we understand each other on the subject :p

You'll have to deal with the Barriers that make Necrophobe invincible. They are Heavy and have no elemental weakness, but vulnerable to both Death and Petrify. Summoning Catoblepas (possibly twice with !Dualcast), Chaos Cannon, Break Spellblade effects plus !Rapid Fire and Death Potions are all perfectly usable ways of inflicting either Death or Petrify without having to worry about Reflect. Of course, 8800 HP isn't that much if you don't want to worry about setting status ailments; a few Thunderstorms from Syldra, a !Zeninage if you must, and they're gone as well.

In the meantime, the Barriers will cast Flare and Holy spells at each other; they'll hit you for around 1000 damage. There are four of these spells coming your way without having time to heal in between, so that wave is going to hurt. Mighty Guard cuts the damage in half, see if you can get it up before it's too late (which is, coincidentally, the same thing your girlfriend demanded last night, pa-dum tsss). Every even turn, they MT one of the Black -aga spells, which sends four half-powered versions of that spell to random party members. Looks exciting, but probably bad for your health.

When the Barriers are gone, Necrophobe will remain invulnerable until he starts talking about now he's really mad and you're going to regret this, at which point Necrophobe himself starts attacking, starting with a Flash. Necrophobe attacks twice every turn, with powerful physicals or !Vacuum Wave, which also sets Sap along with even more physical pain. Necrophobe may rarely use Hurricane to drop a character down on his or her knees, and very rarely a Death spell may appear. It should be no surprise that the Protect and Image status and Golem's Earthen Wall are a great help in this part of the battle.

iOS/Android: Necrophobe will use Hurricane on all four members of your party in this version, making it far more dangerous.

In the meantime, Necrophobe is open to your violence and theft; a rare Thief's Gloves could be nice. He's weak to all elements! Holy spells, high elemental Spellblade effects, -aga Black spells, Syldra or Leviathan, it's all very, very powerful. Note that you'll want to chip away no more than 9999 HP every attack, since when Necrophobe takes damage and is at 9999 HP or below, you'll possibly gain the help of an enemy turned friend...

**Level:** 93, HP: 55000, MP: 60000 · **Defense:** 35, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 30%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Genji Armor (common) · **Creature:** Heavy, Humanoid · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None

Gilgamesh

Few relevant stats, as you can see. If you skipped the Excalipoor chest in Exdeath's castle all those moons ago, he obviously won't be here now and you'll have to reduce Necrophobe's HP down to 0 just like any other battle. If not, here he is... As soon as Gilgamesh appears, Necrophobe becomes invulnerable again; a clear sign that this is Gilgamesh' battle, not yours anymore. Do know that this is your small window of stealing the only Genji Armor in the game; don't pass it up. Necrophobe will attack Gilgamesh twice before deciding Flare might be the best way to finish him off; at which point, Gilgamesh will retaliate with a glorious sacrifice.

Note: There have been reports about Gilgamesh not showing up even when all the known conditions are met. At this point, I have not been able to verify this or discover the cause, if in fact present at all. Information or save states are greatly appreciated. We live in the interactive age, after all. Write your own chapter in Djibriel's walkthrough today!

The Genji Armor is the most physically resilient Heavy armor in the original SNES game, protecting against Confuse and Toad to boot. A sweet deal, and the final part of your steadily growing Genji set.

When all is done, you find the last Save Point of the game. From now on, it's simply a straight march to our destination; Exdeath.

With Movers as the rare encounter here and the mass amounts of ABP to be found here, this is the place to, y'know, what do you youngest call it? Grind, farm, 'max it up', really 'get into it', etcetera. At some point in the future, you really have everything you want for your characters; they needn't get that elusive Three Stars above their head as a Freelancer, but mastering Thief, Monk and Oracle maximizes stats. !Rapid Fire, !Spellblade level 6 and Dual-Wield are great for all physically inclined characters; mastering !White, !Black, !Time, !Summon and !Blue are great for all arcane specialists, and make sure to reach !Dualcast for maximum potential. Whenever you load Quicksave data, the second battle you'll see will be the Mover formations; you'll be masterin' Jobs like

someone really adept at masterin' Jobs.

If you're a bit lazier, I find that casters get away nicely with mastering the Berserker and Bard for Strength/Stamina and Agility. The stats are not optimal, but the ABP investment is less steep. Physically inclined characters will like Monk and Thief, but can get away easily with something like Blue Mage if you must give them a respectable Magic Power.

For a more in-depth analysis, please check out [FREELANCER-LINK]
