<a id="s4-51-3"></a>

### 4.51.3. Interdimensional Rift; the Forest

Opponents: White Flame (#208), Moss Fungus (#209), Farfarello (#210), Calofisteri (#300)

Container contents: Dragon Fang, Enhancer, Ribbon, Lillith Rod

Miscellaneous items: Elixir (rare White Flame steal), Lilith Rod (rare Farfarello steal)

Blue spells: White Wind, Pond's Chorus, Lilliputian Lyric

"Midway upon the journey of our life I found myself within a forest dark, for the straightforward pathway had been lost. Ah me! How hard a thing it is to say What was this forest savage, rough and stern, which in the very thought renews the fear." - Dante Aligheiri's Inferno

It is said that evil beasts were sealed into the Rift; right along with the forests and caves they were living in! Oh, my...

35 % White Flame x2, Moss Fungus, Farfarello 35 % Moss Fungus x3 23 % Moss Fungus, White Flame x4 6 % Farfarello x5

White Flames are much more easily taken care of than their palette swap brethren, luckily. All they do is absorb Holy, so beware. Third and fourth turns could theoretically be spent on White Wind, but they're dead by then. 1600 HP isn't much.

Moss Fungus is said to grow on the graves of poisoned people. They're weak to Fire-elemental attacks and Water-elemental ones; Leviathan works out nicely. They attack physically, but beware: !Knock Silly sets Confuse. They can also employ Web and Spore to set Slow and Poison. If you use !Lance on one, they'll have a 66% shot at countering with Rainbow Wind, so eh... don't use !Lance. Let's be honest here; have you ever used !Lance?

Farfarello are tiny little trickster wizards that either drain your resources with Drain or Osmose or sing a happy little tune, either Pond's Chorus or Lilliputian Lyric. They come with inherent Protect, so physical attacks aren't your route; strong MT magical attacks are better; they're weak to Bio spells. You can steal a rare Lilith Rod, but you also find one in a chest here.

Leviathan slays all encounters in a single Tidal Wave. Make sure to protect against Confuse; you can use a Lamia's Tiara, Rainbow Dress, Red Slippers, Bone Mail or the Berserk ability. Ribbons do NOT protect against Confuse! Mirage Vests also make sure you dodge at least one !Knock Silly, which is generally all you need before you get a Leviathan in there.

Like in the Great Forest of Moore, your vision is impaired. Unlike the Great Forest of Moore, teleportation magickx will do you no good; the Teleport spell won't work here. Don't worry, I'll guide you through.

Your vision is impaired, like it was in the Great Forest of Moore. You have an additional disadvantage though; you cannot use Teleport to flee the scene (though in-battle Teleport is fine). Behind the first large tree you encounter on your path, you can find a chest which contains a Dragon Fang. When you press on further into the forest, you'll find a field; stick to the left and you'll find a chest containing a Ribbon. If you never stole one, this is your fourth one. Hey, status immunity across the board! Go down and find a chest with an Enhancer. Go up again, leaning to the right and you'll find the chest containing the Lilith Rod.

The Lilith Rod performs an attack similar to the !Flirt ability; when the strike is successful (you'll see a purple hit animation on the target, never works on a Heavy target), the next turn of the target will be spent doing nothing. Any equipment that boosts !Dance and !Flirt also increases the success rate of the Lilith Rod. 25% of the time, the Rod may follow up with an Osmose attack. It's such a weird thing. Waving your 'rod' around usually doesn't charm anyone, let alone fungus. The Lilith Rod doesn't function with !Jump, !Mug, !Rapid Fire or !Focus.

iOS/Android: The Lilith Rod seems to function a bit differently in this version, using !Flirt around 66% of the time and casting Osmose 33% of the time.

A narrow passageway to the right takes you to a tree with a hole in it. A tree spirit from the Forest of Moore? And sure enough, one comes out to open up a passageway between its roots. But before you can press on, it seems not all tree spirits are helpful. Appearing from between the roots is Calofisteri, one of the Eleven of the Rift.

**Level:** 68, HP: 18000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 50, Magic Defense: 30 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Reflect Ring (rare), Plumed Hat (common) · **Win:** Diamond Plate (rare) · **Creature:** Humanoid, Magic Beast, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Old, Silence, Slow · **t Evade:** Song · **Attacks:** Drain, Poison, Bio, Cura, Protect, Esuna, Shell, Reflect, Regen,

Calofisteri Haste, Old, Stop

Hey, another naked chick in the forest! But this one is blue... As a corrupted guardian spirit of the woods, Calofisteri is a subtle warrior. Her AI script changes when you have Reflect or when she has Reflect. When neither you nor she has the reflective barrier up, she will cast either Stop, Old or Reflect (which may provoke her to cast more damaging spells off her). If the blue wonder has Reflect set but you do not, she will cast Bio, Poison, Old and Stop on herself to do damage and disable; she may also randomly cast Reflect again, which bounces off her own Reflect barrier, thus setting the status on one of the characters (which in turn allows her to start buffing herself). If you have Reflect, she will start casting Cura, Protect, Esuna, Shell, Regen and Haste on you to give herself beneficial statuses; these can all be removed with Dispel, Reflect or not.

Whenever she takes damage, she will counter with a Drain spell; aside from the very rare Bio spell, this is her only way of dealing damage. At around 350 damage, that's bad news for the naked blue chick in the forest.

Since so very few of her spells actually damage you, simply make removing her buffs and debuffs with respectively Dispel and Esuna a priority. She has no particular resistances, so aside from a Protect, Shell or Reflect she may put up, damaging her is not a problem. Since she is both a Humanoid and Magic Beast, the Man-Eater, Beast Killer and Artemis Bow all punch right through to the heart of the matter. Silence Spellblade, Slow or Romeo's Ballad and setting Old and Poison aren't all that necessary, but since Calofisteri is obviously used to playing with her prey, it might be fun to do the same to her before you show her that annoyer tactics are neither fun nor productive in the long run.

Or, you know, set Haste and Berserk on an archer with the Artemis Bow and have yourself a well-deserved trip to the bathroom, take a drink out of the fridge or call your parents for a minute. It'll be over when you get back to the screen.

When you're done here, passing beneath the tree will take you to a cave.
