<a id="s4-51-6"></a>

### 4.51.6. Interdimensional Rift; the Tower

Opponents: Ninja (#214), Dragon Aevis (#215)

Miscellaneous items: Artemis Bow (rare Dragon Aevis steal)

"Believe it or not, I'm walking on air. I never thought I could feel so free. Flying away on a wing and a prayer, Who could it be? Believe it or not, it's OH MY GOD NINJAS ARE EVERYWHERE GET THEM PLEASE HELP"

- Joey Scarbury, 528 b.C.

35 % Dragon Aevis x2 35 % Ninja x2 23 % Dragon Aevis 6 % Dragon Aevis, Ninja

This is a very straightforward part without any chests, only two new enemies. A Thief or character with the Find Passages support ability can see where to go; even blind, it's easy since you won't fall off.

Ninjas are not Humanoid, so don't even bother. They're killing machines. When struck with !Attack, they may counter with Image to avoid the next two physical

blows altogether. They attack physically, sometimes with !Yagyuu's Strike which sets Sap. Yagyuu is this famous Japanese samurai or something, possibly famous for setting Sap with his sword strikes. They're vulnerable to Petrify and Death and are not Heavy, but have incredible amounts of Evasion (70%) and Magic Evasion (90%) so taking advantage of those weaknesses is difficult. Petrify Spellblade effects paired with !Aim or !Rapid Fire help out, as does Odin (but it won't execute Zantetsuken when a Dragon Aevis is present). Level 4 Graviga also works and never misses. They may rarely drop the expensive Fuma Shuriken!

The Dragon Aevis' are not Dragons, but they ARE Aevis. So the Aevis Killer helps out here. They're Heavy as well, so Odin can't even solve this one for you. They attack physically and use Breath Wing, which is a concern; none of the major status ailments work except for Petrify, so Catoblepas should be called forthwith. They're also weak to Water, so Leviathan might be a better solution for you. You can get a rare Artemis Bow from them; hey, why not. They're very powerful versus Magic Beasts. They also drop Dragon Fangs all the freaking time, which is great. When you Catch them, they'll use Breath Wing upon Release. That's a really sweet attack to use in the final battle of this game, so if you want to you can Catch one or more here and store them for later usage.

There's one direction you can go in. Go in that direction until you reach the Dimension Castle, the halls of which are filled with an exhaustive amount of treasure and danger.
