<a id="s4-51-7"></a>

### 4.51.7. Interdimensional Rift; the Dimension Castle

Opponents: Mythril Dragon (#36), Mini Magician (#118), Galajelly (#119), Mammon (#120), Blind Wolf (#124), Hellraiser (#125), Magic Dragon (#127), Red Dragon (#133), Yellow Dragon (#134), Sword Dancer (#216), Death Claw (#217), Fury (#218), Yojimbo (#219), Iron Giant (#220), Ramuh (#255), Azulmagia (#301), Alte Roite (#302), Jura Aevis (#303), Catastrophe (#304), Halicarnassus (#305), Twintania (#306)

**Container contents:** Thor Hammer, Hermes Sandals, Man-Eater, Rainbow Dress,

Red Sandals

Miscellaneous items: Enhancer (rare Sword Dancer steal), Thor Hammer (rare Death Claw steal), Cursed Ring (rare Fury steal), Reflect Ring (common Fury steal), Murakumo (rare Yojimbo steal), Titan's Gloves (rare Azulmagia steal), Dragon Lance (rare Jura Aevis steal), Aegis Shield (rare Halicarnassus steal), Elven Mantle (rare Halicarnassus drop), Tinklebell (rare Twintania drop), Flame Shield (rare Twintania steal)

Summon spells: Ramuh

Blue spells: Death Claw, Level 3 Flare, Dark Spark, Off-Guard, Goblin Punch, Mind Blast, Aeroga, Doom, Roulette, Aero, Level 2 Old, 1000 Needles, Level 5 Death, Level 4 Graviga, Mighty Guard, Vampire, Lilliputian Lyric, Flash, ???, Aqua Breath, Aera, Flame Thrower, Pond's Chorus, Missile, Magic Hammer, Time Slip, White Wind, Self-Destruct

"But I am not in heart to describe beauty, for when I had seen the view I explored further. Doors, doors, doors everywhere, and all locked and bolted. In no place save from the windows in the castle walls is there an available exit. The castle is a veritable prison, and I am a prisoner! " - memoire of an unlucky interdimensional traveler

That's a lot of stuff, isn't it? This is the final area of the Interdimentionsal Rift before we dive into the very Void itself. Halicarnassus rules the Dimension Castle, and four of the Eleven of the Rift are still alive. Throw open those heavy doors and meet your destiny.

Ground floor, including wing towers 35 % Sword Dancer x2 35 % Death Claw x2, Sword Dancer x2 23 % Iron Giant 6 % Magic Dragon x3, Hellraiser, Blind Wolf

Sword Dancers are the graceful footsoldiers of whatever civilization was imprisoned together with the Dimension Castle. They can attack physically, use !High Kick (which is more powerful) and Danse Macabre, which sets Zombie to a single character. Angel Rings help protect against that (but Ribbons won't), and note that any status ailment can work on them (including Toad, which just stops the possibility of Danse Macabre). Humanoid, not Heavy. You can nab some rare Enhancers from them, sweet swords for your Blue Mages if you don't plan on using !Attack at all and the best enchantable blades for Mystic Knights.

Death Claws use Death Claw all the freaking time. They're notable since they can't be Controlled, I guess; weak to Water, not Heavy, so those with Leviathan and Odin can choose how to kill them. They have a rare Thor Hammer for you; you could get one now; you'll find one in a chest here as well.

Iron Giants are the second-worst Giants. They attack with powerful physical swings from that grand blade of his, and uses Rocket Punch to deal 50% current HP damage and set the Confuse status. When struck with an !Attack, he'll counter with a powerful !Takedown, so don't do that 'cause !Takedown is unblockable and ignores Defense, making it quite potent. They look very intimidating, but they are vulnerable to Death and Petrify and are not Heavy, so take advantage of that fact rather than trying to plow through their 18000 HP.

Throw open the heavy doors, and meet your destiny. Here, in the main hall, are seven exits. You appeared out of one. Another one is a staircase in the middle of the room going up, but the doors there are closed. Going around the staircase will have you find the stairs going down to the basement, but we'll get there later. To the left, the visible door leads to an otherwise featureless little room packed with spears you can't pick up. The other one takes you outside, to a small tower. Here, in a chest, you can pick up a Thor Hammer, which is a bit less powerful than the Titan's Axe but Back Row OK and therefor better versus random monster formations. It is also an Aerial weapon; you actually throw this thing around, much like the weapon of the comic book hero Thor. Or so I've been told; comics are for total geeks.

Go back to the main hall. To the right, the visible door gets you nowhere like the other one, so go outside. Another small tower houses a chest containing Hermes Sandals. Go back to the main hall, and circle around the staircase to find the stairs going down to the basement.

In the basement, there are no random encounters. There are quite a few NPCs running around here though. To the left is Azulmagia, one of the Eleven of the Rift. To the right, Catastrophe the beholder is holding a girl captive; Catastrophe is another one of the Eleven, though apparently loathe to work together with Azulmagia (or the other way around). A total of six old men are locked away in their cells as well. What a mess.

Walk to the left first. There's a chest there you can't reach yet, but there's also Azulmagiavwaiting for you. The towering fiend is optional, but nets you a new item and a Save Point, so why not? He's a righteous detective, this one, inquiring into your business like a nosy no-good. Good boys don't lie; but good guys also get punished in the Dimension Castle. Proclaim your heroism and face Azulmagia, monstrous mage of the Eleven of the Rift.

**Level:** 57, HP: 27900, MP: 50000 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 70 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 33% · **Steal:** Titan's Gloves (rare), Elixir (common) · **Win:** Black Cowl (rare) · **Weakness:** Poison · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable:** Darkness · **Attacks:** Doom, Roulette, Aqua Breath, Level 5 Death, Level 4 Graviga, Level 2

Azulmagia Old, Level 3 Flare, Pond's Chorus, Lilliputian Lyric, Flash, Time Slip, Death Claw, Aero, Aera, Aeroga, Flame Thrower, Goblin Punch, Dark Spark, Off-Guard, Mind Blast, Vampire, Magic Hammer, Mighty Guard, Self-Destruct, ???, 1000 Needles, White Wind, Missile

Azulmagia uses Blue Magic, like, a lot. I mean, like all the time. He's telling us he can quit whenever he wants, but we can tell he's not too sure himself anymore. Azulmagia lacks a few Blue spells, though! Moon Flute and Transfusion, Azulmagia doesn't know and doesn't care about. But the attacks Aeroga, 1000 Needles, Level 3 Flare, Aqua Breath, Magic Hammer and Self-Destruct are Blue spells Azulmagia never got his ginormous hands on, and he'll be more than happy to test them out on you should he learn them in the process of this battle... In addition, there's the Titan's Gloves to think about, unique in this game as a rare steal from this guy only. You miss them now, you miss them forever, so take a Thief and Return caster in there.

When you use any of the Blue spells I mentioned earlier on him, he'll learn them from you and change his AI script accordingly.

Normal AI Script: 33% Dark Spark, 33% Off-Guard, 33% Mind Blast 33% Doom, 33% Roulette, 33% Level 2 Old 33% Level 5 Death, 33% Level 4 Graviga, 33% Mighty Guard 33% Lilliputian Lyric, 33% Flash, 33% ??? 33% Aera, 33% Flame Thrower, 33% Missile 33% Time Slip, 33% Death Claw, 33% White Wind

Learned Level 3 Flare! 66% Level 3 Flare, 33% Dark Spark 66% Level 3 Flare, 33% Off-Guard 66% Level 3 Flare, 33% Goblin Punch 66% Level 3 Flare, 33% Mind Blast (return to normal AI script)

Learned Aeroga! 66% Aeroga, 33% Doom 66% Aeroga, 33% Roulette 66% Aeroga, 33% Aero 66% Aeroga, 33% Level 2 Old (return to normal AI script)

Learned 1000 Needles! 66% 1000 Needles, 33% Level 5 Death 66% 1000 Needles, 33% Level 4 Graviga 66% 1000 Needles, 33% Mighty Guard (return to normal AI script)

Learned Vampire! 66% Vampire, 33% Lilliputian Lyric 66% Vampire, 33% Flash 66% Vampire, 33% ??? (return to normal AI script)

Learned Aqua Breath! 66% Aqua Breath, 33% Aera 66% Aqua Breath, 33% Flame Thrower 66% Aqua Breath, 33% Pond's Chorus 66% Aqua Breath, 33% Missile (return to normal AI script)

Learned Magic Hammer! 66% Magic Hammer, 33% Time Slip 66% Magic Hammer, 33% Death Claw 66% Magic Hammer, 33% White Wind (return to normal AI script)

Learned Self-Destruct! Self-Destruct (ashes to ashes, dust to dust)

Phew! I'm not normally a fan of direct AI transcript, but since you may want to learn a Blue spell or two here, the specific circumstances of their appearance may be relevant for you. Azulmagia's quite absent-minded, that much is true; when you teach him a Blue spell, then teach him another Blue spell, you can teach him the first Blue spell again! He'll regain his enthusiasm for the spell as well.

If your level allows you to dodge Level 3 Flare, teaching him that spell is the safest for you. If that is not an option, the Magic Hammer routine is also a great one. Aggravating Azulmagia into using Aeroga or Vampire is a bad idea; Aeroga deals about 1800 damage, and Vampire and the ??? spell in that list are very dangerous on a creatures with over 20000 HP. Another neat thing to consider is Reflect + Level 3 Flare; everything in that part except for Goblin Punch is Reflectable, Level 3 Flare hurts Azulmagia and Dark Spark and Off-Guard are super-duper when they connect on Azulmagia.

People may tell you to use Self-Destruct to end the battle! Possible, it does work, but you'll lose out on ABP for a single character as Azulmagia will take a character with him when he explodes for maximum damage.

Azulmagia has a lot of attacks, some of which are very dangerous. Throw up Mighty Guard and Hastega. Shell will reduce damage dealt and reduce the hit rate of status ailment spells as well. Cast Magic Hammer or possibly Level 3 Flare, and the battle is yours. Bio Spellblade is very powerful. Bio is not a very powerful spell, so that Poison-elemental weakness is much better exploited with Mystic Knights. Set Berserk for added effects; if you have one or two casters to heal and clear bad effects, possibly boost levels or stats through !Sing or !Mix, a Mystic Knight can take Azulmagia down by itself.

Titan's Gloves are a *bit* better than Kaiser Knuckles for those not punching Barehanded; they have better Defense, boost Stamina (for Regen) and protect against Mini. Oh, joy. They can only be equipped by Heavy Armor Jobs, and they decrease Agility and Magic Power by 5. They're not that great an item. They're unique though!

There's a Save Point here now, so that's beneficial. Do your thing with it, then look around to see what's the buzz. You can engage the old men through the bars if you must. This way, you don't have to open the door and can nicely pick them off at your leisure. These jokers have rare Dragon Lances you can steal, and can start with an Encircle attack. I suggest a Thief and two characters capable of casting Return if you want to make sure you get a Dragon Lance from at least one of the battles.

**Level:** 58, HP: 6000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 45, Magic Defense: 60 · **Evasion:** 70%, Magic Evasion: 60% · **Steal:** Holy Water (rare), Potion (common) · **Win:** Healing Staff (rare) · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Berserk, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Encircle

Alte Roite

Oh... my aching back!

This is probably a mistranslation of 'Alte Leute', German for 'old people'. Just 'cause there's six of them, doesn't mean they're not serious business. They'll attack physically, which ain't too bad, or use Encircle 33% of the time to remove a character from the fight. That blows, and you can't really stop it. Berserk works, but you don't wanna set it 'cause after defeating the old man, he transforms into the creature you're probably here for: the Jura Aevis! If you set Berserk, kill him with a Counterattack or use Chaos Cannon to kill him, he won't transform. If you use a Gold Needle on Alte Roite, it seems he is cursed with a petrified spine; he'll return the favor by healing himself completely, then go on attacking. Craziness! His Evasion and Magic Evasion is through the roof, as is his Magic Defense and to a slightly lesser extent his Defense. Bio and Flare punch through nicely, as does Holy. After 6000 HP...

Alte Roite reveals his true form!

**Level:** 61, HP: 15000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 35, Magic Defense: 30 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Dragon Lance (rare), Turtle Shell (common) · **Win:** Dragon Fang (always) · **Absorbs:** Wind, Lightning, Ice, Fire · **Nullifies:** Earth · **Status:** Float · **Creature:** Aevis · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Old, Paralyze, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Breath Wing, Blaze, Lightning, Maelstrom,

Jura Aevis Entangle

Blast, he became a lot harder. On the upside, he lost his Heavy nature, which is absolutely the path to his destruction. You want this thing to appear because it has a rare Dragon Lance for you. Dragon Lances are the strongest Lances in the pre-GBA era, and the key to the defeat of some very nasty critters. You can also get them later in a random encounter, but this thing is here now! His many HP-based attacks are a pain, but you can keep him busy with Paralyze; Whips and the Remora summon help out there, as well as Mind Blast. Slow also helps. Since his level is 61, the Dark Spark/Level 5 Death combo works; but since he isn't Heavy anyway, you might want to forego this bothersome technique and just cast Banish or summon Odin instead.

Especially if you plan on defeating the Magic Pot and the Famed Mimic Gogo later, obtaining Dragon Lances is very nice. However, with every Return spell you cast you'll have to plow through another old man; waiting for the Crystal Dragon later may be quicker farming.

The three old men in the bottom jail cell were running around a chest containing a Rainbow Dress; the three old men in the other one guarded some Red Slippers.

Now that you have all the Dragon Lances you'll ever need (or not), time to move on! If we are to continue, we'll have to get past the beholder, Catastrophe. You can't open the door, but you may gaze into Catastrope's Evil Eye.

Eyes to see you...

**Level:** 71, HP: 19997, MP: 19997 · **Defense:** 40, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 15%, Magic Evasion: 33% · **Steal:** Cottage (rare), Elixir (common) · **Win:** Gold Needle (always) · **Absorbs:** Earth · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Old, Paralyze, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, 100 Gs, Evil Eye, Earth Shaker

Catastrophe

Catastrophe is not intelligent enough to put up a decent fight like, say, Azulmagia; C. packs the punch, but doesn't know how to deliver it. He'll attack randomly with physical attacks, stare at you with his Evil Eye to set Petrify to a single target or use Earth Shaker to deal anywhere between 900 and 1100 damage across the board. He won't even counter stuff, but he will get mad at you if you cleverly avoid his Earth-based attacks with Float; he'll stop attacking and use 100 Gs to pull you down to the castle's floors.

So, you know, casting Float every turn will have him use 100 Gs every turn, and YOU still have three other characters for the damage department. In addition, you could even set Float outside of battle, then waltz in there with Reflect Rings; 100 Gs reflects, so you just won the battle right there as Catastrophe won't ever attack again unless you Dispel your own Reflect/Float status. A single character with the Reflect Ring/Float thing will have Catastrophe fixated on pulling him or her down, so the other three can use all those other Accessories you like so much.

Aegis Shields and Ribbons protect against Evil Eye, but if you let Catastrophe attack, Evil Eye really isn't the worst of your problems; Earth Shaker is very powerful and can take you down fast unless you Curaga or White Wind it up every single turn following it. Since Catastrophe doesn't have any elemental weaknesses, crippling status immunities or exploitable natures to take advantage of, just throw out your most powerful attacks. His level is 71, so after a successful Dark Spark he becomes vulnerable to Level 5 Death. Something to remember!

Look at that. Eye haven't seen such an easy fight in ages, but it's not polite to stare. Ah, enough with the eye puns, it looks more like an evil spud anyway.

Receive your Kiss of Blessing from the girl. What's a girl like that doing in a place like this? Don't ask her, she'll think you're hitting on her. When you go up, you'll find yourself outside!

Outside

35 % Death Claw x2, Sword Dancer x2

35 % Fury x2, Death Claw

23 % Yojimbo, Ninja

**6 % Ramuh > Mythril Dragon**

If you let old man Ramuh wander the forests near Istory all those chapters ago, you can find him here, outside, as the rarest encounter. Else, a Mythril Dragon takes his place.

Furies are supermages that are able to cast two spells every turn; normally, they'll combine either Death, Berserk or nothing with Stop, Drain or nothing. When alone, they get especially mad at you and combine two -aga spells or combine either Silence, Toad or Mini with Comet, Slowga or Bio. That's a lot of spells. They're weak to Water, so Leviathan kills them easily; they're Heavy, so there's no easy getting rid of them. Silence, Death and Petrify do work when Leviathan is not as your disposal, though. If you want more Cursed Rings for who knows what, get 'em from these guys.

Yojimbo's !Wring sets both Poison and Darkness; an annoying combo. It was supposed to set Paralyze, but it doesn't. These ronin carry a Murakumo as a rare steal, a stronger Katana than the Masamune; it lacks any special features, though. Set Mini or whatever, who cares how you beat them as anything goes :p

Ignore the door you first see and walk over the left wing of the Dimension Castle. You'll find yourself in an apparently featureless room, but Thieves know better; there's a passage to the right. Go in, follow the trail until you reach the hitherto unreachable chest containing a Man-Eater. If you didn't use Thieves, these are a total of three Dancer-only pieces of equipment you see for the first time. Trace back your steps, and enter the second floor or the Dimension Castle.

There are no random encounters here in the throneroom, but if you descend in the middle of the room, there will be random encounters in the staircase. Flip the switch to open the doors; these doors will be closed again once you leave this room, so unless you forgot something on the other side there's little point in going through the heavy wooden doors.

Staircase 49 % Iron Giant, Death Claw x3 35 % Death Claw x2, Sword Dancer x2 6 % Yellow Dragon x2

The throne has but a single seat... a lonely king, this castle has. If you try to go to the exit once, you'll be pulled onto the throne; twice, and Halicarnassus of the Questionable Gender appears to kill you. Well, y'know, he/she tries. If you wanna be a smart-ass, cast the Toad spell on all characters not equipped with a Ribbon or Genji Gloves; you'll understand how this helps out when the battle starts.

**Level:** 97, HP: 33333, MP: 5000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 66% · **Steal:** Aegis Shield (rare), Staff of Light (common) · **Win:** Elven Cape (rare) · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Mini, Darkness, Old, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Haste, Shell, Dispel, Holy, Ribbit,

Halicarnassus Reverse Polarity, (Strong) Attack

King Queen of the Dimension Castle will start the battle with the Alchymia's Ribbit attack, toggling the Toad status on all party members. Those not protected by the Ribbon or Genji Gloves will find themselves looking small, green and delicious in the eyes of strange old men in Quelb (also, the French). Those who entered the fight as a toad will find themselves restored. Sweet!

Halicarnassus will muck about for quite a few turns, using physical attacks and the odd buff (Haste or Shell), Reverse Polarity or Dispel, but every seventh turn will be a Holy spell cast at a single party member, which will either hit Reflect or kill the target; it does about 9500 damage (half that with Shell in place). After the Holy spell, Ribbit is used again; Toad's not cured from the first attack will now be restored (and vice versa). The last thing to know is that Halicarnassus hates third parties entering into the arena; Summon magic will be punished by (Strong) Attack, which kills a character.

This is an easy battle; Dispel can be used to remove Haste and Shell if they give you pain. Don't use Summon Magic. An odd status vulnerability of Halicarnassus is Mini; though with his/her level being 97, it is almost impossible to set. !Combine a Mallet with any type of shot and you'll have a straight 75% chance of inflicting the status; note that (Strong) Attack is not affected by Mini's debilitating effects. Also good is using !Mix to put together an Eye Drops and a Dragon Fang; the resulting Dark Sigh sets Darkness, really hindering the physical onslaught. Silence can be set, but lasts only a while; Silence Spellblade is an option, but only debatably better than, say, Flare Spellblade.

iOS/Android: With Dark Sigh no longer unblockable, another way of setting Darkness would be the Dark Cannon, !Combining Ash with some gunpowder.

With his/her Holy spell being the only intimidating factor of the battle, you could summon Carbuncle to help out; since Halicarnassus is not the target of this summon spell, he/she won't counter. Black spells bouncing off four targets is always a sweet deal; just be careful Dispel doesn't remove one of the four barriers.

If you never got a Staff of Light, here's your chance; it's still not really missable in the real sense of the word if you pass it up here, but waiting for the rarest encounter to drop a rare drop is not a lot of fun. The Aegis Shield is a great thing to have!

Behind the throne room, there is a back room with only some stairs going to the top of the castle. There's a unique encounter pattern, though!

Back room 35 % Iron Giant 35 % Death Claw, Fury, Sword Dancer 23 % Iron Giant x2 6 % Red Dragon

Summit of castle 35 % Sword Dancer, Fury x2 35 % Death Claw, Fury, Sword Dancer 23 % Yojimbo x2 6 % Mammon x2, Galajelly x2, Mini Magician

At the top of the Dimension Castle, the last guardian between you and the Void makes itself known; Twintania, the most terrible weapon of mass destruction the Void has ever sealed within. He's nowhere near as sexy as his name implies.

**Level:** 39, HP: 50000, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 16 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Flame Shield (rare), Phoenix Down (common) · **Win:** Tinklebell (rare) · **Weakness:** Water, Holy · **Creature:** Magic Beast, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Atomic Ray, Ice Storm, Mind Blast, Wind Slash, Tidal Wave, Mega Flare,

Twintania Giga Flare

Twintania is a right bastard. He'll attack with powerful MT attacks; Wind Slash and Atomic Ray ain't that powerful, so forget about those. Mind Blast is a neat trick of Twintania's; unlike any other foe or character in this fine game, he can MT the thing, setting Paralyze to all four characters (unless protected by Genji Gloves or Hermes Sandals). Ice Storm is just powerful stuff. He'll start with two turns of either Atomic Ray, Ice Storm or a physical; then he'll use MT Mind Blast, followed by two turns of Wind Slash. THEN, he charges Gigaflare, but first I want to talk about his counters.

Twintania may counteract any magical attack (this means anything coming from !Red, !White, !Black, !Time, !Blue or !Summon) with Mega Flare; any other attack can provoke a 33% shot at Tidal Wave, which deals impressive Water- elemental damage. Coral Rings help out against those, but it's probably easier to not provoke the counter at all.

Book of Magic, Volume 14: "The secret of Gigaflare... When storing power for this magic, you become utterly defenseless for a moment... Casters, be wary."

When Twintania starts going for Giga Flare, he'll change into another monster. Check this statblock for the changes:

**Level:** 30, HP: (as first form), MP: (as first form) · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Titan's axe (common) · **Win:** Murasame (rare) · **Weakness:** Water, Holy (as first form) · **Creature:** Magic Beast (no longer Heavy) · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Toad, Darkness, Silence, Slow, Stop

First off, note that Twintania became vulnerable to instant death through Holy Spellblade, Odin's Zantetsuken, Death spells, Banish spells, Death Claw, the works. In addition, Toad can be set! Since Twintania also changes items you can steal and he drops, there's something to consider. The normal Twintania may rarely drop a Tinklebell; it's the only one in the game, so you'll likely salivate all over the idea of getting one even though it's not very good. However it's also likely you'll want that second Titan's Axe; it's the only second Titan's Axe in the game! So you'll likely want to

a) have Twintania change form and steal a Titan's Axe b) survive Gigaflare somehow c) kill the normal Twintania and hope for a Tinklebell

So, how to survive Gigaflare? You can set Toad, which causes Gigaflare to do nothing. After another turn, Twintania's normal sprite which suddenly appear in place of the toad; this signals the normal Twintania's return. Kill with violence.

If you can set Shell and can take a punch of about 1550 HP on one or more characters, you can survive Gigaflare straight up; Goliath Tonic may help out if it's necessary. Without Shell, Gigaflare deals over 3000 HP damage, which is too much for you (unless, again, Goliath Tonics).

When fighting Twintania, keep on the defensive on the first two turns as Ice Storm is quite powerful and there is no need to swallow a Tidal Wave or Mega Flare. When Twintania's signaling the Gigaflare attack; Steal! Then, set Toad or brace for impact, whichever option you chose. When the normal Twintania is back, pound for great justice (also, possibly a Tinklebell).

Since Twintania is weak to both Water and Holy, damaging him needn't be a chore; your best bet is probably summoning Carbuncle and spamming spells; if he counters with Megaflare, he'll just hurt himself (Megaflare is reflectable). Another option is equipping Coral Rings across the board and going with anything BUT spells; you'll keep yourself healed throughout the fight due to Twintania's torrents.

The Tinklebell... the Gaia Bell functions like a Back Row OK Hammer, the Rune Chime like a Rune weapon (such as the Rune Blade). The Tinklebell is the only other bell besides the Diamond one that actually functions as a bell; it deals unblockable, non-elemental magical damage from the Back Row and doesn't function when Mute (but not pre-set Mute) is in effect. There you go. Feel happy with it? You're not using Geomancers, it's not powerful and it doesn't aid in spellcasting so nobody wants to hold it.

When you're done, walk on up and scroll on down to read the final chapter of this long and epic struggle.
