<a id="s4-51-1"></a>

### 4.51.1. Interdimensional Rift; the Desert

...

...

...

Opponents: Dhorme Chimera (#58), Ankheg (#184), Ammonite (#185), Landcrawler (#186)

Miscellaneous items: Defender (rare Landcrawler steal)

When the thousands of evil creatures were sealed away 1000 years ago, those that governed this monumental process did not exactly cut with a surgeon's precision. Large parts of the lands were sealed away as well; among them a large desert.

"The desert was the apotheosis of all deserts, huge, standing to the sky for what looked like eternity in all directions" - King Stephen of the Dark Tower

35 % Ammonite x5 35 % Ankheg x3 23 % Landcrawler 6 % Dhorme Chimera

The Ammonites, Ankhegs and Landcrawlers are creatures you already encountered around the Phoenix Tower; the Dhorme Chimera is a creature you faced when traveling between Karnak and the Ancient Library, and again around the Ruined City of Gohn. These should be news to you; Level 3 Flare hits all but the Chimera, and Odin can strike them all as well. The Landcrawler is sturdy, but not Heavy.

The path of this first part of the Interdimensional Rift is very linear. Sand- streams indicate we are truly no longer on our own planet; the Desert of the Shifting Sands has fallen silent, but these streams are apparently not tied to the Crystals of either world. A single wall and an eventual door tell us that whatever this location once was, it was inhabited by the Ancients.

When you reach the door, Exdeath bids you a warm welcome... you've defeated Melusine, the Wendigo, Triton, Nereid and Phobos already, and watched another sealed demon be defeated by Leviathan. Seven of the Eleven of the Rift are left, each more malicious than the next: the monstrous mage Azulmagia, the beholder Catastrophe, the wicked fey Calofisteri, the tome demon Apanda, the terrible creature Twintania, the king of the dark castle Halicarnassus and finally the immortal, Necrophobe. They will do everything in their not inconsiderable power to destroy you, so tread carefully...
