<a id="s4-51-5"></a>

### 4.51.5. Interdimensional Rift; the Library

Opponents: Apanda (#299)

Miscellaneous items: Ash (guaranteed Apanda drop, rare and common Apanda steal)

Blue spells: Magic Hammer

"At other times he would pass an entire day in the great hall of the library, leafing through manuscripts as if seeking nothing but his own enjoyment (while, around us, the corpses of monks, horribly murdered, were multiplying)." - ancient text on the historical murders at the Library of the Ancients

It's an eeeeevil library, mind. I think both religious and anti-religious zealots would agree that books can be very dangerous. We've already experienced this fighting the possessed tomes in the Library of the Ancients... again, those Ancients. What comes next? Page 512? Page... 1024?

First, examine the two books on the shelves. The right one talks about Omega and Shinryu, one of which we've already encountered. They were more powerful even than the legendary weapons twelve, thus more powerful than the Enuo we've been hearing so much about. Exciting stuff. The left one talks about Gigaflare and how it leaves the caster defenseless. If we could learn Gigaflare, we'd certainly be wary... but we can't, 'cause we have no more room in the menu to list it.

The book on the table triggers a dimensional switch, but its guardian Apanda, one of the Eleven of the Rift, jumps out to stop you from ever observing its effects. But hey, if it thought we'd never get this far he must be a poor judge of strength. Buddy, have we got the surprise for you...

**Level:** 59, HP: 22200, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 23, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 30% · **Steal:** Ash (common & rare) · **Win:** Ash (always) · **Weakness:** Fire · **Creature:** Magic Beast, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Berserk, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, Protect, Confuse, Drain, Magic Hammer, Wind Slash, Web,

Apanda Dischord

This guy has a relation with Byblos, the first servant of Exdeath we ever did defeat, the one that came into Bartz' world together with Exdeath, fleeing before the Warriors of Dawn. What this demon is, is unclear. However, the combat behavior of Byblos and Apanda is similar and Apanda also shares a fear of Ifrit. Maybe this guy's, like, Bizarro Byblos or something. Let's examine!

It will attack with all sorts of magical attacks to complement simply punching you in the face 'til you bleed; Confuse, Magic Hammer, Wind Slash, Web and Dischord may all appear. Dischord is bad, but you could counter with a !Mix that raises level. Hi-Potion + Dragon Fang equals Dragon Power, which raises level by 20. Any magic attack (again, !Black, !White, !Time, !Summon and !Blue) may provoke either Drain or Toad as a counter; any other damaging attack may provoke either Drain or Protect. Quickly within the fight, Apanda will have Protect up. Drain will do around 600 HP, already a fair bit more powerful than Calofisteri's Drain.

Even though Ifrit is one of the weaker Fire-elemental attacks we can conjure up at this point, Apanda has a severe phobia for our ally. When summoned, he will cause Apanda to turn the other way and cower in a corner.

"Gah, Ifrit! Scary!" *tremble*

The next turn, Apanda will find the courage to turn around, use Panacea, and resume the battle, only to cower again when Ifrit is summoned once more. This way, you never really have to battle Apanda at all; summon Ifrit and pound upon the terrified thing 'til it stops moving. Firaga spells are supremely powerful, as is Firaga Spellblade, the Flametongue and the like. Another strategy is simply setting Berserk and let Golem, Mighty Guard and/or Blink take care of the rest.

Panacea is the Greek goddess of curative medicine; named after her is a mythical medicine that is supposed to cure all ailments. If you want to cure Apanda's fear of Ifrit permanently, setting Berserk or killing it senseless both get the job done nicely.

When Apanda has fallen, you've engaged the dimensional switch. Wonder where we turn up now? Too bad you can't use the bed here to rest in.
