<a id="s4-52-1"></a>

### 4.52.1. Facing the Void

Opponents: Exdeath (#313), Neo Exdeath (#314)

Miscellaneous items: Dragon Lance (rare Neo Exdeath steal), Murakumo (rare Neo Exdeath steal), Ragnarok (rare Neo Exdeath steal)

It was over thirty years ago that a tree used to seal countless evil spirits gained self-awareness. This composite soul terrorized an alien world until four brave man, known as the warriors of Dawn, chased the vile creature to our peaceful world. Once there, it could not be destroyed, but was sealed with the power of the Crystals, the four elemental pillars of the world. They were the fundament of all life, but an unthinkable four-fold cataclysm happened, and the creature that made himself known as Exdeath escaped to return to its world of origin. It developed a plan to gain control over the ultimate power to exact its dark judgment on all its enemies. It was to be a successful plan. But it is the fate of the world that warriors stand up in the face of destruction time and again; the Ancients versus Enuo, the warriors of Dawn thirty years ago and now you, here, in the Interdimensional Rift.

When you approach, the prelude to this final chapter takes place. Castle Bal, Faris' pirate crew and their hideout, Coco, Cid 'nd Mid and the Catapult are all sucked into the Void, effectively removing all allies you had back at Planet R. Exdeath traps you into the Void as well, but unexpected help arrives.

When it is over, you are free to customize your character for the final confrontation with Exdeath. You could also leave Exdeath now, travel back to the eldritch warp point that connects the Last Floor to the Dimensional Castle and Teleport out of the Interdimensional Rift. In doing so, something funky happens:

Space warps and distorts... Time climbs upward...

And you are delivered to a time period just before Exdeath's final wave of onslaught. Bal Castle, the Pirate Hideout and the Catapult are all still there, and if you return to Exdeath he'll make his speech again. Anyway, it's time for that final showdown.

Freelancers and Mimes are likely what you want, as ABP gain doesn't matter anymore, and these two Jobs (likely) have awesome stats, great equipment options and (likely) a few useful inherent abilities. If not, Summoners, White, Time and Blue Mages, Mystic Knigths, Ninjas and Samurai make the best base classes due to useful inherent action abilities.

Ribbons are a must. Exdeath will throw around a large array of status ailments, so Ribbons are great. Favor Magic Defense over Defense; Aegis Shields are incredibly awesome and are to be applied unless Dual-Wield is very important to the set-up of your character. !Blue, !Mix and especially !Sing are very awesome support abilities for buffing; !Summon, !Spellblade and !Combine are very potent offensive capabilities.

**Level:** 77, HP: 49001, MP: 30000 · **Defense:** 35, Magic Defense: 25 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 15% · **Steal:** Wonder Wand (rare), Phoenix Down (common) · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **t Evade:** Aerial · **Attacks:** Attack, Flare, Holy, Meteor, Doom, White Hole

Exdeath

THIS is the Entropic Adversary's true form; its humanoid form was always a shell, a mask. It seems that the power of the Void is something that's not quickly harnessed; Exdeath is as of yet incapable of using it in a fast-paced battle.

Exdeath will use but two attacks; a physical attack and White Hole, a single- target magical attack that sets both Death and Petrify to a single character. Characters that have protection from either status ailment nullifies the entire attack; that means those with Ribbons and Aegis Shields are safe, but also those equipped with Bone Mail. With !Mix, you can put some Holy Water with some Phoenix Down to create a Lifeshield, that grants the affected character immunity from Death-setting attacks, including White Hole. Since White Holy takes 99 MP to cast, destroying Exdeath's pool of MP by means of Dark Ethers (Mix some Ether + Dark Matter) and Lilith's Kisses (Mix Ether with a Maiden's Kiss) can eventually put a stop to White Hole forever and also stop the damaging spells Exdeath will start casting as the fight continuous).

This is the perfect moment for you to buff yourself to the skies; physical attacks are quite powerful but easily nullified with Blink spells, Golem's Earthen Wall and Mighty Guard. White Hole shouldn't have any effect if you listened to my advice; if White Hole does manage to affect a character, the two-turn revival process is admittedly bothersome. Use Lifeshield to protect against White Hole if you did send a character without proper protection up there.

!Blue gives you Mighty Guard, the ability to take only half damage from both physical and magical attacks, while giving the characters vulnerable to White Hole increased odds to avoid the attack. This is extremely helpful. !Sing gives you the ability to set Regen on all those not equipped with a Protect Ring; Hero's Rime increases your level over time, greatly increasing your offensive power; Mighty March isn't normally so great, but with Stamina pumped like awesome it'll heal about 300 HP every time; not bad at all. !Mix gives you the ability to raise your level through Dragon Power (Potion + Dragon's Fang), mix up your own Goliath Tonic (Elixir + Dragon's Fang) to double your HP. Elemental Power (Eye Drops + Holy Water) is great to set on those that can use !Combine, !Black or !Summon; normally you'd want to use weapons that boost elements, but if you know you'll take care of that within the battle, that opens up the possibility to equip a weapon such as the Defender, Sasuke's Katana, Enhancer or Man-Eater; weapons that provide passive benefits that don't include elemental boosts.

Since Exdeath has no elemental weakness but also close to no Defense or Magic Defense, you can simply dive into your strongest attacks. !Rapid Fire, especially when combined with Flare Spellblade effects and/or Dual-Wield, is especially powerful. Note that the Man-Eater deals critical damage to Exdeath, but cannot be enchanted with Spellblade effects. With !Dualcast, you can cast two spells simultaneously; post-Elemental Power Leviathan summoning is most powerful; Meteor strikes four times and is independent from your level; the higher your level is (or boosted) the likelier it is that Meteor does less damage than a single 'normal' spell. Exdeath cannot avoid Aerial attacks, so Whips, Bows, the Rising Sun and Thor Hammer will never miss. You know, it's a tree. You miss trees, you did a bad thing trying out for this whole world- saving business.

When Exdeath starts taking damage and is pushed beyond 30000 HP left, it will resort to the raw power of the Black and White school of magic; Flare and Holy will start making appearances. Both are extremely powerful; they'll deal around 2300 damage, which is probably enough to one-hit kill any character not protected by the Shell or Reflect status. In his final 10000 HP, it'll start casting Meteor; this is easily its most dangerous attack, especially versus those with low Magic Defense.

And then, after 49001 HP, Exdeath loses control. Like Enuo before it, when faced with the warriors with the Legendary Weapons, the Void turns against those who foolishly attempts to control the uncontrollable, and it envelops Exdeath...

...

...

...

I am Neo Exdeath!

All memories... dimensions... existence...

All that is shall be returned to nothing.

Then I, too, can disappear...

...forever!!!

**Level:** 81, HP: 50000, MP: 65000 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 25 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 76% · **Steal:** Murakumo (rare) · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Vacuum Wave · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Silence, Slow, Stop · **Attacks:** Attack, !Vacuum Wave, Comet, Meteor, Malestrom, Almagest

Neo Exdeath (Vacuum)

**Level:** 83, HP: 55000, MP: 65000 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 75% · **Steal:** Dragon Lance (rare) · **Creature:** Dragon, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Vacuum Wave · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Paralyze, Silence, Stop · **Attacks:** Attack, !Vacuum Wave, Dispel, Comet, Meteor, Maelstrom, Grand Cross,

Neo Exdeath (Dragon) Almagest

**Level:** 67, HP: 55000, MP: 65000 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 19 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 80% · **Steal:** Fuma Shuriken (rare) · **Creature:** Magic Beast, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Vacuum Wave · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Petrify, Darkness, Old, Silence, Stop · **Attacks:** Attack, !Vacuum wave, Comet, Meteor, Maelstrom, Almagest

Neo Exdeath (Magic Beast)

**Level:** 86, HP: 60000, MP: 65000 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 10%, Magic Evasion: 66% · **Steal:** Ragnarok (rare) · **Creature:** Humanoid · **Special Technique:** !Vacuum Wave · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Silence, Slow, Stop · **Attacks:** Attack, !Vacuum Wave, Firaga, Blizzaga, Thundaga, Flare, Holy, Dispel,

Neo Exdeath (Humanoid) Comet, Meteor, Aeroga, Delta Attack, Maelstrom, Almagest

The abomination that calls itself Neo Exdeath has no place in this world; but what the hell is it? It seems to be a combination of all that was sealed in the Void at some point; evil creatures, dragons, seductive succubi, warlocks, all driven to fulfill the philosophy of the Void, if any; all must become none. And so we become complete, for the five great elemental manifestations are Wind, Water, Earth, Fire and Void...

Neo Exdeath is composed out of four targets, which you can think of as completely separate entities. Though some sprite-related tricks have been accomplished to make it seen this is a single composite being, all four targets have different stats, different attacks and different weaknesses to exploit. All four targets are rather slow and have big gaps in their AI script where they do nothing, so they won't take as many turns as most creatures, nor will they act on every turn that's presented to them; when they do act, though, they have the capacity for great destruction. When only a single target is left out of the four, that target will assume the consciousness of the other three targets and continuously attack with most of the powerful spells available to the four targets as a whole.

The front target points to the front-most and largest creature, that of the muscular man with the red horns and the painted face. This creature is the only one out of the four targets without a specific nature, and since it is the one most fond of using physical attacks including !Vacuum Wave, I have dubbed it (Vacuum). It will use physical attacks only normally until it dies or is the only one left, but I'll talk about Neo Exdeath's desperation attack after discussing all four parts. (Vacuum) is vulnerable to Slow and Darkness mainly (Stop doesn't last long, Silence doesn't hinder him); Slow is best set with Slow Cannon from !Combine; Darkness is best set with the unblockable Dark Sigh (Eye Drops + Dragon Fang). After a successful Dark Spark spell, it'll becomes vulnerable to Level 5 Death as well; but getting Dark Spark to work on a level 81 target with 76% Magic Evasion is nigh-undoable.

iOS/Android: Dark Sigh is no longer unblockable, but if you produce a Dark Cannon attack (Blitzshot + Ash), you'll have a flat 75% chance of setting the ailment versus all targets alive.

Behind (Vacuum) is (Dragon); the pointer here indicates the snarling red demon's face on a coiled body. This creature is the one responsible for the lines "The laws of the universe mean nothing!" and the Grand Cross attack. Grand Cross inflicts one out of 18 effects: it can inflict Death, Petrify, Toad, Mini, Poison, Zombie, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, Confuse, Berserk, Silence, Stop, Slow, Doom, Sap or reduce a target's HP down to a single digit (but not when the target is Heavy). Stop has a twice as big a chance of being set as any of the other 16 effects. The Ribbon stops most of the more dangerous ones, including Death, Petrify, Toad and Berserk; there's still plenty of nasty stuff to be set. If Grand Cross fails to set a randomly select status ailment, it won't try to set something else; you'll often see Grand Cross do nothing on characters sufficiently protected by Ribbons or Genji gear. Besides Grand Cross (Dragon) may also use Dispel very rarely as well as Meteor, which just sucks. Meteor doesn't make an appearance before (Dragon) is brought down to 15000 HP or below though. The Dragon's Whisker, Dragon Lance and !Combine's Dragon Cannon are all quite powerful versus this specific target, as is the Apollo's Harp.

Far in the back row, hiding below where the marker indicates a human skeleton, is (Human), the spellcaster of the four. Whenever a powerful spell is seen on- screen, you have this guy to blame for it. It may use any of the powerful spells from !Black, !White and !Blue, but also Delta Attack to set Petrify; where all other monsters needed two other casters to perform this thing, (Human) can do it whenever it isn't alone, regardless of surviving allies. (Human) is quite notorious for being NOT Heavy, opening it up to all kinds of silly shenanigans. !Flirt, !Iainuki, Odin's Zantetsuken, Antilixir, it all works (provided it gets past the impressive Magic Evasion). Odin won't normally use Zantetsuken since there are other, Heavy targets on the field; from the Magic Lamp though, he will. Odin will appear to affect the entire thing, but the remaining three targets will pull Neo Exdeath back together. Another especially humorous attack here is Banish, which may work; you will, while fighting in the Interdimensional Rift, throw a part of a solid behemoth of creatures into the Rift. It makes no sense! Anyway, Odin from the Magic Lamp is really the only unblockable attack that destroys non-Heavy targets you have; Doom from !Blue or !Condemn will put an unblockable timer there. Sure, it'll take a while, but it WILL kill. And hey... a use for !Predict of all things!

(Magic Beast) is the last and most dangerous of the four targets, as this is the one that can use Almagest. The pointer here leads to an undead ram-like creature, grinning like an idiot. Almagest is a multi-target Holy-elemental attack that also sets Sap; it will deal around 1800 damage to all characters, assuming no Shell status or them blocking the attack with an Aegis Shield. This is by far the most powerful attack Neo Exdeath has; take care with it. Since it's a Magic Beast, the Artemis Bow and the Beast Killer Whip deal double damage, but that's a triviality; (Magic Beast) is vulnerable to the Petrify status ailment! This means that it can be taken out of the fight in a single attack, but setting Petrify is, as always, tricky business when the target has such a high level and Magic Evasion. Catoblepas is more accurate than Break, but master is always application of Break Spellblade effects, then sticking the affected blade into the smiling creature's gullet.

At some point, you will have reduced these four targets down to a single target. Out of murderous desperation, Neo Exdeath will use this target as a conduit for all its power; all AI scripts for all four targets are the same when it's alone. It will take two actions on each turn, and each can be a Comet or Meteor spell, Attack or !Vacuum Wave, a Maelstrom attack or Almagest. Luckily he'll always use Maelstrom as a second attack out of two turns.

So, destroy destruction itself! (Magic Beast) must be the first to go, since Almagest is so dangerous. Apply Break to your blade, then swing it; Catoblepas and Break spells will have a chance of hitting if you lack !Spellblade. Then, destroy (Human) with Odin, an Antilixir (Elixir + Dark Matter) or Doom. If you have !Mix, (Eye Drops + Dragon Fang) Dark Sigh helps against (Vacuum); if you don't have it, don't bother. Properly gimped, it is time to inflict damage upon the creature. Since Neo Exdeath becomes so much more frightening once it only has a single target left, it is best to divide the damage across (Dragon) and (Vacuum) evenly; MT attacks are best. Slow Cannon can help in reducing the amount of attacks coming your way; Slowga has a lesser chance of hitting but is an acceptable substitute. If your team is mainly geared towards single-target attacks or is, due to !Rapid Fire and Meteor spells, not really suitable to aim its violence, (Dragon) is much more dangerous than (Vacuum) so that evil red unicorn must die first.

The fight with Neo Exdeath can definitely one of the toughest fights this game has to offer, but since you have so much time to prepare you should be well- guarded, buffed left and right and ultimately suited to destroy the bane of all existence. From two Goblins to this monstrosity, Wind's Quest has brought Bartz far...

When the gruesome battle is over, you are free to watch the cutscenes. If any of the character was Dead, Petrified or a Zombie at the end of the fight, they will lack the strength to left the Void by themselves, and they will be absent from the period of time narrated by whoever is the narrator. Krile will be the narrator when everbody made it out alive, Bartz will be the narrator if any one of the girls has fallen, and Lenna will be the narrator when Bartz was left behind. Faris is almost never the narrator, likely because she can neither read nor write. Yar!

Ygg d r a s i l

What miracle is this? This giant tree. It stands ten thousand feet high But doesn't reach the ground. Still it stands. Its roots must hold the sky.

O

You have become the one that is the victorious person. Everybody is happy for you. Life, however, goes on. Moments of bliss are fleeting and temporary. In the next chapters, I will first describe two optional superbosses and how to kill two other 'enemies' that were not meant to be killed. Later, I will start talking about the Sealed Temple and the Cloister of the Dead, the bonus content they added for the GBA and iOS/Android games.
