<a id="s4-53-1"></a>

### 4.53.1. The Undeathables; Famed Mimic Gogo

Opponents: Famed Mimic Gogo

Miscellaneous items: Gold Hairpin (rare Famed Mimic Gogo steal)

Between what once was the very end of the game and all the bonus material, I would like to take a minute to tell you about the four creatures so difficult to defeat, they are simply harder than Neo Exdeath. Omega and Shinryu are the easier of the four, while Magic Pot and Famed Mimic Gogo were simply never created to be defeated in the realm of combat. Strangely, it seems that the game designers adhered to the concept that not all problems can be solved through violence. This, as I'll demonstrate, is an urban myth.

In Carwen, some cross-dressing thing fled from your gaze after transforming into YOU. That ain't cool. Normal people would have followed the person earlier, would have done nothing for a while, then got the Mime shard and continued playing. Normal people, who probably have loads of friends, play an instrument, got a special someone. BUT WE'RE NOT NORMAL PEOPLE. THIS THING WILL DIE NOW BECAUSE WE'RE SPECIAL.

[GOGO-LINK]

**Level:** 77, HP: 47714, MP: 60000 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 20 · **Evasion:** 30%, Magic Evasion: 99% · **Steal:** Gold Hairpin (rare), Leather Armor (common) · **Win:** Tiger Mask (rare) · **Nullifies:** Water · **Creature:** Humanoid, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, (Strong) Attack, Holy, Flare, Meteor,

Famed Mimic Gogo Maelstrom, Ice Storm, Aqua Breath, Frost

Famed Mimic Gogo, for all his outlandish attire and speech, is one of the most difficult opponents in the game. If you provoke it with a physical attack (including !Steal), it may either counter with a normal physical, !Critical Attack or (Strong) Attack, which will kill a character. If you use a spell on it, even if it is beneficial, Gogo will counter with either a Holy, Flare or Meteor spell, which are all very powerful.

If you deal 14714 damage to Gogo and survive to see it, it will become strongly agitated. "You uncultured boors! Know you nothing of an artist's soul? Cut! Cut! Stop TRYING to mimic! Start over, recenter, and begin!" Then, it will cast Meteor thrice in a row and kill you with powerful attacks. You are not equipped to handle this fight at all right now, so this is a Game Over for you.

There is another thing to consider, and that is the fact that this fight is bugged. When Gogo starts the Uncultured Boors speech, it'll lapse into saying that and cast Meteor, which is good. Well, not good, but that's the way it was meant to be. Then, it'll say it again! And cast another Meteor. Then a third Meteor, will all kinds of useless speech at the end that's not meant to be there:

Dragged into another dimension! Odin: All right, that's far enough! Turning to stone... Can't escape! Countdown to Pestilence...4 KO'd! Countdown to Eruption...5 KO'd! Level halved! KO'd!

Next two turns are 'normal' in that they do what they're meant to do: a consecutive Maelstrom, Ice Storm and Aqua Breath combo, followed that next turn by a consecutive Frost, Ice Storm and Aqua Breath combo. This sounds nasty, but you need to realize that by this point you have either killed Famed Mimic Gogo already or have failed. After these attacks, FMG will try another Meteor, but it'll be followed by all the garbled text. Loop from there.

iOS/Android: They fixed the bug here. FMG will cast three Meteor spells in a row, after which it use Maelstrom, Ice Storm and Aqua Breath. The third turn will feature Flame, Ice Storm and Aqua Breath. It makes little difference.

See, the trick here is to defeat Famed Mimic Gogo really quickly and brutally. The fatal commands must have been given to the character and unstoppable in nature when you do actually see the 'uncultured boors' speech in the first place. Options to kill the Famed Mimic include:

- Get a single character with !Rapid Fire, !Spellblade 6 and two of your most powerful enchantable blades in the game. Enter the fight and start buffing that character with Dragon Potions (Mix a Potion with a Dragon Fang) to boost his level. If you deal around 6000 damage per strike with a Flared Up Rapid Fire Attack, you got the fiend.

- Use only attacks that circumvent counters! This is taking advantage of bugs, but if it works for you, it works for you. 3 Reflected character + one character to absorb, then cast the appropriate spell (Firaga or Blizzaga) on yourself. Chaos Cannon (Combine Blitzshot with Dark Matter) also doesn't provoke counters.

- Mix a Dragon Kiss (Dragon Fang + Maiden's Kiss) to set the Dragon nature to Famed Mimic Gogo. Now, have five Dragon Lances and use !Jump with them. At least one will have to Dual-Wield. The Dragon Lance will deal 9999 a hit, killing Famed Mimic Gogo on the fifth one.

If you really have no shame, Famed Mimic Gogo has a rare Gold Hairpin; if you must have it, you can cast Return until you get it; note that the Return spell doesn't Return your drown timer.

If you win, you get the Mime Job!

[MIME-LINK]
