<a id="s4-53-4"></a>

### 4.53.4. The Undeathables; Shinryu

Opponents: King Behemoth (#221), Crystal Dragon (#222), Necromancer (#223), Gorgimera (#224), Mindflayer (#225), Crystelle (#226), Belphegor (#227), Mover (#228), Shinryu (#312)

Container contents: Ragnarok

Miscellaneous items: Elixir (common Necrophobe steal, common Crystal Dragon steal), Blood Sword (rare King Behemoth steal), Dragon Lance (rare Crystal Dragon steal), Bone Mail (rare Necromancer steal), Aegis Shield (rare Gorgimera steal), Main Gauche (rare Mindflayer steal), Rising Sun (rare Belphegor steal), Ice Shield (rare Belphegor drop), Dragon's Whisker (rare Shinryu steal), Dragon Seal (guaranteed Shinryu drop)

Blue spells: ???, Transfusion, Mind Blast, Flash, Roulette, Mighty Guard, Level 2 Old, Level 3 Flare

"The dragon Shinryu came upon (Omega's) heels. Not e'en the legendary weapons twelve were able to subdue these evil beasts. Inside the Rift the demons were interred; so should they stay until forever's end their names to stay unspoken evermore." - Thousand-year-old book

Omega paced back and forth inside its cave, either incapable or unwilling to go beyond its prison. But a machine is easily confined, a dragon adapts. Especially God-Kings of dragonkind, those are like wicked smart. So the Ancients, who could not defeat Shinryu, had to put him in a chest. Y'know, to seal him away. It's like a mystical chest, hidden away in the darkest corners of reality. The also put a really good sword in the chest. Some argue that hiding ancient treasures somewhere along with unspeakable evil is a great way to let dumb-ass adventurers actively seek out the treasures, releasing the evil in the process. But what were the Ancients to do? Just let the sword lying around in some treasure chest NOT guarded by a God-King of Dragons? That's not how the Ancients roll.

[SHINRYU-LINK]

**Level:** 97, HP: 55500, MP: 51000 · **Defense:** 60, Magic Defense: 60 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 95% · **Steal:** Dragon's Whisker (rare), Dragon Fang (common) · **Win:** Dragon Crest (always) · **Absorbs:** Holy · **Creature:** Heavy, Dragon · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Berserk, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, Roulette, Level 2 Old, Level 3 Flare, Mighty Guard, Ice Storm,

Shinryu Atomic Ray, Lightning, Maelstrom, Demon Eye, Poison Breath, Tidal Wave, Zombie Breath

Shinryu starts his battles off with a Tidal Wave of enormous magnitude; it deals over 8000 damage. That means that every character not equipped with a Coral Ring or in a stroke of luck protected by an Aegis Shield (33 % chance) is now dead. Tidal Wave - or any other Water-elemental attack - will not make an appearance for the rest of the battle, so even though you'll want at least two characters with a Coral Ring, you don't need to have them across the board; as long as you're prepared to fully revive any character not protected at the start of the battle. !Summon 5, !White 6 and !Mix grants access to full HP recovery.

Important note: Shinryu will have to get a turn before it can use Tidal Wave; a character with a Masamune or sufficient Agility and the Hermes Sandals can outspeed the God-King of Dragons to do stuff like set Berserk before this wave comes crashing down. More on Berserk later.

The first turn can mean either Maelstrom, Attack or Roulette. Roulette may kill a character; Maelstrom can be very dangerous; Shinryu's high level means Maelstrom is quite accurate and will often hit. Curaga is great way of countering its effects; Arise can counter Roulette.

The next turn means either Ice Storm, Atomic Ray or Lightning. Lightning ain't too bad, it's just 25 % maximum HP damage. Those equipped with Coral Rings will take double damage though; watch out for that. Atomic Ray and Ice Storm are both really powerful. Atomic Ray will be nullified by Coral Ring characters, but Ice Storm will kill everybody; Ice Shields can protect against this, as can Resist Ice potions (Mix a Phoenix Down with some Antidote) or Dragon Shielding (Mix a Dragon Fang with an Ether); Dragon Shielding also helps against any Atomic Ray and Lightning attacks Shinryu may unleash at a later instance.

If you're still alive by this point, Shinryu'll get serious. Third turn is a double-turn; first one is either Maelstrom, Attack or Roulette like it's first turn, then either Mighty Guard, Level 2 Old or Level 3 Flare. Level 3 Flare either kills or does nothing; Mighty Guard is a nuisance which you can Dispel with the spell or the Judgment Staff.

The fourth turn is another double-turn, and the last unique one before Shinryu loops its AI script. First turn is a 66% shot at Attack or Evil Eye which sets Stone to a single character, then either 66% Attack or Poison Breath which deals Poison-elemental damage to all; compared to stuff like Ice Storm, it's not as nasty, this meaning it doesn't kill you outright. After this fourth turn, e.a. the second double-turn, it doesn't use Tidal Wave but just picks an attack out of the first turn again.

When Shinryu hits 20000 HP, it'll let loose with a one-time Zombie Breath attack. So, y'know, watch out for that 'cause it kills you and turns you into Zombies.

There are two strategies. You can either Berserk Shinryu; in its rage, it'll be a far easier target and can either be completely nullified or just be outmuscled. The Berserk spell is a simply infallible way to enrage the dragon; calling its father a 'fat, flatulent git' is not quite as effective but twice as fun. Another strategy is pile up enough super-effective damage quick enough that Shinryu is dead before he realizes what's going on. Both are popular and effective, so you can take your pick.

Setting Berserk to Shinryu is easy, as the White Berserk is spell is unblockable and it lasts forever. The Power Staff can duplicate its effects, as can the !Mix outcome Bacchus' Cider (Holy Water + Turtle Shell). Now, Shinryu will unleash a simple physical attack each turn; when it lands, it will kill a character. If the character charged with setting Berserk is given the Masamune as a weapon, he or she can move before the Tidal Wave. Golem and Mirage Vests can combine to grant a lot of missing physicals even before Evasion kicks in. With !Mix, you can set Darkness with a Dark Sigh (Eye Drops + Dragon Fang), it'll never miss. Going in with three character who are near-death and a character with !Guard gives you immunity as well. You could even just keep up with Shinryu's death count and revive any character that falls. Basically, Shinryu was dead in the water as soon as Berserk was set; the rest is just being fancy about it.

iOS/Android: Again, with Dark Sigh useless your best bets lie with Dark Cannon or the Dark Bow.

If you want to let Shinryu go about its business like normal, you'll need to be more careful. Shinryu is a Dragon; an archaic strategy would have you acquire six Dragon Lances from assorted Crystal Dragons right here in the Void, set Dual-Wield to three Dragoons and !Jump for joy. This is possible, but not necessary.

A character with the Quick spell (!Time 6) and Apollo's Harp can deal comparable damage, since Apollo's Harp is so effective against dragons. Giving a Quick spell to a Dragoon with a Dragon Lance is also a great idea; you'll give the Dragoon two !Jump attacks in the time-pocket you create with Quick, so you'll get the same result without having character disappear from the battlefield, the Dragoon will still have a Shield, you'll only need a single Dragon Lance for that character and you're not giving Shinryu time to utterly annihilate you, as he so often does. So with but a single Dragon Lance, you already got four extremely powerful hits. Dualcasting Flare, Meteo or Bahamut is also as effective as usual, since Shinryu lacks a Shell status (unless he gets Mighty Guard up).

With enough Agility and inherent Haste status, you can have all characters act before Tidal Wave appears; give Quick to all, and you can take out Shinryu no problem without Coral Rings at all. A risky venture, but hey, that's us. Danger is our middle name.

You get a Dragon Seal for your trouble, and a Ragnarok. Following this walkthrough, you could've stolen Ragnarok swords from Neo Exdeath; this is your most likely source, though. It's not as good as a fully-powerd Brave Blade, but doesn't lock you into a no-run game. The Dragon Seal is useless. Hooray!
