<a id="s4-53-2"></a>

### 4.53.2. The Undeathables; Magic Pot

Opponents: Ankheg (#184), Ammonite (#185), Landcrawler (#186), Lemure (#187), Partenhope (#188), Cherie (#189), Kuza Beast (x) (-), Soul Cannon (x) (-), Liquid Flame (x) (-), Bandercoeurl (x) (-), Magic Pot (#190)

Miscellaneous items: Defender (rare Landcrawler steal), Reflect Ring (common Lemure steal, rare Parthenope drop), Ribbon (rare Lemure steal), Rainbow Dress (common Parthenope steal), Coral Ring (rare Parthenope steal), Hermes Sandals (rare Cherie drop), Red Slippers (common Cherie steal), Elven Cape (rare Cherie steal), Protect Ring (rare Soul Cannon (x) steal)

Blue spells: 1000 Needles, Pond's Chorus, Roulette, Flash, Aeroga, Lilliputian Lyric, Time Slip, ???

The above block of text is identical to the one used for the Phoenix Tower on your first run; obviously most of the container contents have likely been taken by this point. Only a single Phoenix Down or Aevis Killer is hidden beneath that most impish of encounters, the Magic Pot. Truly a crazy, crazy gimmick fight, it is not even meant to give you a Game Over if you piss it off (as was the case with the Famed Mimic). Attacking the Magic Pot is like bashing your head against a wall, made of titanium, itself backed up by other walls made of titanium that are cheering it on not to give up. Underwater. Well, you get the idea. But have no fear, I'll help you. I'm from the Netherlands, we're experts on 'Magic Pot'.

If you left one alone, now's the time to kill it, for it CAN be done! Search out the Black Chocobo you tamed, and fly it to the forests to the east of the great desert between North Mountain and the Phoenix Tower. Descend the Chocobo, walk over to the Phoenix Tower, and start climbing to the vase you left the Magic Pot in.

[POT-LINK]

**Level:** 91, HP: 65255, MP: 50000 · **Defense:** 255, Magic Defense: 255 · **Evasion:** 95%, Magic Evasion: 99% · **Steal:** Hi-Potion (rare) · **Win:** Elixir (rare) · **Status:** Protect, Shell · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **Attacks:** (full heal)

Magic Pot

Here's the thing. The battle starts with Mute set, so !Black, !White, !Time, !Blue (unlike in normal Mute, where Blue spells still work), !Sing and !Spellblade are out. Things that do work are !Condemn, !Predict, spells cast by using an item (such as Masamune's Haste or Fire Rod's Firaga), !Call, the Magic Lamp and all Bells; as far as the Diamond Bell and Tinklebell go, that's definitely an inconsistency. Apollo's Harp also works.

Magic Pot uses (full heal) every turn; it shares an animation with the Elixir, and fully heals the Magic Pot back to 65255 HP. Magic Pot has ridiculous Defense, Magic Defense, perfect Evasion and Magic Evasion, a level of 91 and is weak to no elements or status ailments. It is the perfect roadblock of a battle.

Mute is set, so the characters can't speak, sing or chant; but if nothing can come out, stuff can still go in! Increasing the level of a single character is the key to Magic Pot's defeat. !Sing can't be used, so Hero's Rime is out; !Mix Potions or Hi-Potions with a Dragon Fang to create a brew called Dragon Power, which increases the character's level by 20. With a one or two Dual-Wield !Rapid Fire attacks between its turns, this thing must go down. Since both Slow and Haste can be set during the battle, you can get in more than just a single attack.

Now, for the specifics! Obviously, Dual-Wield !Rapid Fire is a must. !Rapid Fire allows us to always hit and pierce Defense. Sadly, Protect is still up, and we can't cast Dispel to remove it. Using the Judgment Staff as an item gets the Job done, and the Wonder Wand can even cast Dispel if you don't have a Judgment Staff and are reluctant to fight Istory Lythos creatures for one.

With Protect down, it's time to start buffing. Keep creating Dragon Power and stack them up on your designated kill machine. Using the Masamune in-battle lets you set Haste to the character. You can also set Slow to the Magic Pot; while theoretically you could, dunno, Release a Gloom Widow to use a Web attack, the chances it'll hit are astronomically small. No, you'll want to !Combine some gunpowder with a Turtle Shell for a clean 75% shot at setting Slow.

With Magic Pot Slowed and unProtected, you're pretty much done; use that one or two !Rapid Fire and you're done! An alternate strategy has you set the Dragon nature through Dragon Kiss and have your superwarrior wield two Dragon Lances or a Dragon Lance and a Dragon's Whisker. Every connecting attack with these weapons will deal twice as much damage; you'll hardly need to boost your level if you have these weapons preset. Apollo's Harp and Dragon Cannon deal some damage if you're short on it, but you shouldn't be.

Congratulations are in order; you've accomplished nothing you couldn't have done by simply feeding the guy. It's like you beat up the homeless man that always hangs around the mall just so you can tell your friends you could, like, totally do it. Man, you're so punk, Avril Lavigne called me to get her your number. She wants to make out with you for hours and hours.
