<a id="s4-53-3"></a>

### 4.53.3. The Undeathables; Omega

Opponents: Drippy (#100), Lycaon (#101), Poison Eagle (#103), Zombie Dragon (#104), Metamorph (#114), Orukat (#211), Great Dragon (#212), Achelon (#213), Golem (#271), Omega (#311)

Miscellaneous items: Dark Matter (common Orukat steal), Dragon Fang (common Great Dragon steal, rare Great Dragon drop), Turtle Shell (common Achelon steal), Staff of Light (rare Metamorph drop), Omega Medal (guaranteed Omega drop)

Summon spells: Golem

Blue spells: Flame Thrower, Flash, Vampire, Magic Hammer

"The roiling skies let loose a vile beast without a soul; Omega was its name." - Thousand-year-old book

Omega is not a coincidental weapon of mass destruction; it is as orchestrated one. Once, we learned that Galuf came from an 'alien' planet; now we know that the two worlds were one and there is not such thing as alien. Except for the two creatures that came here from above, the dread machine Omega and the dragon Shinryu. When the warriors wielding the Twelve Legendary Weapons defeated Enuo, they were unable to destroy this eldritch machine. But we have a fair shot, because not only is Omega a walking atom bomb spelling death for all that it encounters, it is also lonely at night.

[OMEGA-LINK]

**Level:** 119, HP: 55530, MP: 60700 · **Defense:** 190, Magic Defense: 150 · **Evasion:** 95%, Magic Evasion: 90% · **Win:** Omega Medal (always) · **Absorbs:** Fire, Ice, Poison, Holy, Earth, Wind, Water · **Weakness:** Lightning · **Status:** Reflect, Shell, Stop (expires) · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Slow, Stop · **t Evade:** Song · **Attacks:** Flame Thrower, Atomic Ray, Delta Attack, Blaster, Rainbow Wind,

Omega Wave Cannon, Maelstrom, Earthquake, Search, Rocket Punch, Mustard Bomb, Encircle

Omega is a murder machine, and it was designed to be very good at it. This is the AI Script Omega was coded with:

- 33% chance of either Atomic Ray, Delta Attack or Blaster - Wave Cannon - 33% chance of either Rainbow Wind, Flame Thrower or Atomic Ray - Wave Cannon - No interrupt: 33% chance of either Delta Attack, Blaster or Wave Cannon 33% chance of either Maelstrom, Earthquake or Rainbow Wind - Search (save target until end next turn) - 33% chance of either Rainbow Wind, Flame Thrower or Atomic Ray (on Search target) - Wave Cannon (loop)

Counterattack to all HP damage: - No interrupt: Target: Random target 33% chance of either Rocket Punch, Rocket Punch or Mustard Bomb 33% chance of either Rocket Punch, Rocket Punch or Encircle

See what I did there? By directly listing the AI Script, I not only displayed the relevant information in the clearest manner possible, but it also acts as a reminder of Omega's mechanical nature. Form and Fuction baby, form and function.

So any attack that deals damage will cause two counter-attacks; Rocket Punch will set Confuse to all characters without protection against the ailment (Lamia's Tiara, Rainbow Dress, Genji Helm, Genji Armor, Bone Mail), Mustard Bomb will kill a character and Encircle will remove a character from the battlefield for the rest of the fight.

Search will save its target, and Omega will exclusively deal with this target until the end of its next turn. If Atomic Ray is the next attack, it will only be fired at the Search target; if any counter-attacks are provoked in the meantime, they'll all home in on the Search target.

Omega will wait for a small margin of time before starting its onslaught; it'll start with a Stop status that'll quickly expire. But you can re-set it if you want! Omega may be the most powerful creation of all, but it has never known the love of a woman. It KNOWS this. Exploit this weakness in the circuits that make up his heart with Romeo's Ballad, which stops the eldritch machine in its tracks. Despite Omega's stellar level and Magic Evasion, Romeo's Ballad will never miss. Know that the small duration op the Stop status is less than the time it takes for Omega to reach a new turn, and it's also shorter than the time a single Hasted character takes to reach a new turn, so a single Hasted Bard is not enough to keep Omega at bay. Two should do the trick, but Romeo's Ballad overlaps; if you have both Bards sing righter after each other, Omega will still get some turns. You'll have to find a flow in which you can spread out the two timers, but I can't tell you how to do that; you'll have to experience it.

Omega's got an inherent Shell up, so even barrier-piercing attacks will deal less damage than you'd expect. Its inherent Reflect barrier stops what probably is anybody's fight tactics when facing this thing; Thundaga spamming. Sappy poetry is all well and good, but it will only delay the thing. We need to destroy it, and that is where !Spellblade comes in. THE solution to the Omega problem is Thundaga Spellblade paired with Dual-Wield !Rapid Fire. Set Thundaga Spellblade effects on the sword, unleash !Rapid Fire, win the battle.

A single character can do this. For maximum potency, equip the Omega Slayer with a Ribbon (protects against Delta Attack), Bone Mail (protects against Blaster's Death) and a Flame Ring (protects against Atomic Ray and Flame Thrower). The other three characters will need to keep Omega busy while your Slayer sets up the Spellblade effect; characters that can Sing Romeo's Ballad and wear Hermes Sandals are a good idea; White Mages can respond quickly with Curaga, Arise and Esuna as well, so take your pick there.

When your Slayer is set, unleash !Rapid Fire. You'll kill Omega in a single turn. Good for you! As they say, it is better to have loved and lost then to have never loved at all and be killed in a waterfall cave for no clear reason whatsoever.

Above strategy is not the only one; a party draped in Flame Shields (a rare steal from Grenades in the Ruins), Ribbons, Bone Mail and Reflect Rings can withstand most attacks Omega can dish out, and cast Thundaga on the own party in return; White Wind can heal Bone Mail wearers between the Wave Cannon attacks and Rocket Punches that will not Confuse, but will damage. This is a messy, uncertain tactic, but a viable one; Slow Cannon will help out here, as it's the only way of setting Slow to something with a level of 119 and a Magic Evasion as high as Omega's. Carbuncle can help out as well; it reflects Delta Attack, Blaster, Atomic Rays and Search (Search!). Something awesome: if you Reflect Search to itself, it'll attack itself the next turn :p

You now receive 50000 Gil, 100 ABP and a Badge! Congratulations.
