<a id="s4-54-1"></a>

### 4.54.1. The Sealed Temple; Unlocking

Opponents: Nutkin (#6), Blue Dragon (#132), Red Dragon (#133), Yellow Dragon (#134), Mecha Head (#150), Chrono Controller (#163), Flaremancer (#164), Vilia (#199), Rukh (#201), Sea Devil (#202), Stingray (#203), Grenade (#204), Level Checker (#207), Dragon Aevis (#215), Sword Dancer (#216), Death Claw (#217), Fury (#218), Yojimbo (#219), Iron Giant (#220), Gorgimera (#224), Mindflayer (#225), Crystelle (#226), Belphegor (#227), Mover (#228), Mini Satana (#229), Assassin (#230), Soul Eater (#231), Behemoth (#232), Dark Elemental (F) (#233), Dark Elemental (I) (#234), Dark Elemental (L) (#235), Exoray (#236), Dinozombie (#239), Gil Turtle (#282)

Container contents: Blastshot x 3, Buckshot, Blitzshot x 2, Cottage, Dark Matter x 2, Elixir x 2, Ether, Fuma Shuriken, Iron Draft, Mace of Zeus, Power Drink, Turtle Shell, Vishnu Vest

Miscellaneous items: Blitz Whip (common Flaremancer steal), Murasame (rare Rukh steal), Defender (rare Sea Devil steal), Rune Blade (rare Stingray steal), Dragon's Whisker (rare Stingray drop), Flame Shield (rare Grenade steal), Artemis Bow (rare Dragon Aevis steal), Enhancer (rare Sword Dancer steal), Thor Hammer (rare Death Claw steal), Cursed Ring (rare Fury steal), Reflect Ring (common Fury steal), Murakumo (rare Yojimbo steal), Aegis Shield (rare Gorgimera steal), Main Gauche (rare Mindflayer steal), Rising Sun (rare Belphegor steal), Ice Shield (rare Belphegor drop), Grand Helm (guaranteed Gil Turtle drop)

Blue spells: Doom, Roulette, Level 5 Death, Level 4 Graviga, Level 2 Old, Level 3 Flare, Pond's Chorus, Lilliputian Lyric, Death Claw, Aeroga, Flame Thrower, Mind Blast, Mighty Guard, Self-Destruct

Hey, kid. Wanna go do some GBA-only bonus content? It's way hard.

As far as items go, I find four Hermes Sandals a must for random encounters. I would highly recommend using four characters equipped with these Haste- inducing winged boots; they give inherent Haste and make you look most moxious. There will be a boss that loves to spam Zombie all up in your face; having four Angel Rings will be a tremendous help in preventing those Zombie Powder attacks from having any effect. Since that time-tested combo of !Spellblade and !Rapid Fire will be called upon a few times, having at least two out of the Excalibur, 150 Battle Power Brave Blade and a Ragnarok will be a blessing as it'll give your !Rapid Fire user of choice two very strong weapons to !Spellblade !Rapid Fire with.

As far as abilities go, things are more difficult. Having Monk/Thief/Oracle mastered for all four will help everybody survive hits like a champ, move as fast as they can and perform wizardry with utmost effect. Read Ahead, the Oracle support ability that sharply reduces random encounter rate will also be a blessing. You'll run mad, MAD, if you don't have it. Monster encounter rate is similair to what you've seen so far, but the battles take longer to win so it becomes a big big hassle to move from one side of the room to the next. Next up, buffs are very important. Mighty Guard is a must, Hastega is a must, Golem and Carbuncle are a must. Have all of these things.

A good strategy would be to have a single dual Knightsword Freelancer with !Rapid Fire and !Spellblade, a single dual Katana Freelancer with !Blue, !Combine or !Mix (take your pick) and two Mimes with !Dualcast and two magic spelllists of your choice. Stick a Ribbon on the Freelancers, Gold Hairpins on your Mimics. You'll get four turns before the enemy even acts; very few enemies can withstand a focused !Rapid Fire, Zantetsuken or dual Syldra (whatever applies).

Ready? Super-ready?

Travel to the new boiling Greater Sea Trench. That's your pathway to all that juicy GBA-only content! You picked up the three new Jobs here earlier, but couldn't open the other two doors at that time. With the defeat of Neo Exdeath, it seems nothing really changed. The final fight with Exdeath is located in a temporal mini-plane that stands outside of reality as we know it. He destroys towns, and you can still return to them; you kill his ass, he's still alive. But this pathway was still opened! Push the skeleton button to move the entire cave to a new, unknown, location. You can no longer move to the airshupmarine, but you can enter the door to the left. The middle door is still sealed by the mysterious power of the programmers not wanting you to go there.

It's a Save Point and then it's you entering the Sealed Temple.

Sealed Temple: 35 % Sword Dancer, Fury, Death Claw 35 % Sword Dancer x 2, Fury 23 % Grenade x 5 6 % Dragon Aevis x 2

iOS/Android: There's different monsters for this first area in the iOS game. I'm not going to do a whole rewrite especially for it, so if you must know what Mini Satanas and Assassins mean for you, Ctrl + F them. iOS Sealed Temple: 35 % Mini Satana 35 % Assassin (Image) 23 % Red Dragon, Blue Dragon 6 % Assassin, Assassin (Image)

The Sealed Temple starts off light with a few monsters you already know. Don't

cast spells on Grenades unless they're fatal (Zantetsuken works), Furies are Heavy but are weak to Water, like the Death Claws. There are three ways into the Sealed Temple. The big heavy doors are locked. The Sealed Temple, in a shocking turn of events, is actually sealed. We'll spend the rest of this chapter working towards opening those doors, no kidding.

We'll enter the left door first to obtain some treasure, then return to this place. Walk down and enter the left door to enter the "Dungeon".

Sealed Temple - Dungeon: 35 % Sword Dancer, Fury, Death Claw 35 % Dragon Aevis x 2 23 % Red Dragon, Yellow Dragon 6 % Mini Satana

You'll encounter more Dragon Aevis' here (which are vulnerable to Petrify and weak to Water-elemental attacks), encounter some old elemental dragons and very rarely encounter your first new enemy, the Mini Satana.

This is one of the Satanas that lives in the Sealed Temple. It smells a little worse than your average Satana, unless all of your Satanas are Mini Satanas, in which case it smells exactly as bad as your average Satana.

Mini Satanas will either attack physically or cast the Reflect spell on themselves. Once Reflect is set, they'll start casting Thundaga, Sleep and Confuse spells on themselves, which obviously bounce off onto you. When Thundaga hits, it'll deal truly massive amounts of damage (neighbourhood of 3000) and likely kill a character. They're Heavy and protected against all relevant status ailments including Death and Petrify, so you'll just have to duke it out. They've got high Evasion, Magic Evasion, and Magic Defense, but Defense is 0 so !Aim with any strong weapon is a great way of picking them off. The Artemis Bow deals critical damage. Since Mini Satana is alone right now, !Rapid Fire is a good way of dealing with them. !Control also works wonders, but a Hypno Crown takes the place of a Ribbon so you decide if that's for you.

There are hidden passages in the Dungeon, so a Thief or Freelancer/Mime who once mastered Thief will be a great help. Starting at the entrance, simply walk to your right to find your first hidden passage. Enter and follow it to find a chest containing a Blastshot. You can continue to your left through another hidden passage to a chest containing a Buckshot. Having found these two marvelous treasures, simply return to the entrance of the Dungeon and leave this place. You can take a quick look, if you want to explore the Dungeon still, at the Archeodemon locked in the middle jail. We'll have to deal with him later.

You just left the Dungeon and are back at the top of the Sealed Temple. Since the middle door is still closed, open the right one. You now find yourself in the "Corridor".

Sealed Temple - Corridor: 35 % Sword Dancer x 2 35 % Grenade x 5 23 % Blue Dragon, Yellow Dragon 6 % Assassin, Assassin (Image)

You need to know some stuff about these Assassin dudes. When you run into one, there's just a single monster. This Assassin knows how to use !Yaguu's Strike, which sets Sap. It has 10000 HP. When you kill it, it'll summon an Assassin (Image). You won't see anything change on-screen, though. This new Assassin will use !Wring instead, which sets Darkness and Poison (or Paralyze if the target is protected from both Darkness and Poison). Assassin (Image) is identical to the normal Assassin except for the fact it will counter !Attack with the Image attack 66% of the time where the original Assassin will only do so 33% of the time. !Rapid Fire, especially with a Man-Eater, will quickly dispatch the blue-robed ninja killer.

Walk down the hallway in the Corridor. When you get the option to go down south, ignore it; there are two warp points there to take you to a new location, but we'll get there later at a more opportune time. Continue to the left to find the entrance to the Hall of Souls.

Ruined Shrine - Hall of Souls: 35 % Mini Satana, Flaremancer x 2 35 % Mini Satana, Fury x 2 23 % Mini Satana x 2 6 % Dark Elemental (F), Dark Elemental (I), Dark Elemental (L)

The Hall of Souls is overrun by new enemies; Mini Satanas appear almost always, while the rare encounter is filled with Dark Elementals. You may want to abandon !Rapid Fire for more focused attacks; the Artemis Bow works well with !Aim on these flying fiends. The Flaremancers were previously found in the Black Tower, where physical attacks were forbidden. They'll still murder you when you use anything but a magical attack; !Summon works really well in killing Flaremancers with possibly Reflected Mini Satanas on the field. I highly recommend Reflect Rings equipped across all four characters, as all encounters here will use magical attacks.

There are three different kinds of Dark Elementals. All have 5500 HP, Heavy nature and all resist all relevant status ailments including Death and Petrify. All three will randomly use Aeroga on a single target and White Wind to heal all Dark Elementals. There's a (F) one that is weak to Fire, will randomly use Firaga and absorbs Ice and Lightning. There's an (I) one that will use Blizzaga, is weak to Ice and absorbs Fire and Lightning, and there's a (L) one that will randomly use Thundaga, is weak to Lightning and will absorb Fire and Ice. If you strike a Dark Elemental with an elemental attack (Fire, Ice or Lightning only) that they aren't weak to, they'll counter with a corresponding level 5 Black spell (so Dark Elemental (F) counters Ramuh with a Thundaga spell, etc.). If you've got Reflect Rings on, they can't really hurt you. You can check their weakness with Libra, !Scan or just by seeing what spells they cast. They got no Magic Defense at all, so Syldra just destroys them.

You are in the Hall of Souls! Walk down a bit to see a hidden passage to your left. If you don't got the goods to see one, get a Thief. Follow this hidden passage until you're in a normally visible corridor again. If you go up, you'll just walk into a pitfall eventually, so go down and collect the treasures; two Blitzshot items. You can't get anywhere else without falling down a pitfall, so retrace your steps through the hidden passage until you're at the start of the hidden passage again.

Walk down a bit 'til your in the middle of the cross intersection. Walk to the right to see another hidden passage. It leads to two chests with two Blastshot items. Treasure here really blows so far, I'm sorry. Anyway, it's time to walk back to the intersection and walk south this time. We're leaving this Hall of Souls into... the Hall of Doubt.

Ruined Shrine - Hall of Doubt: 35 % Mini Satana x 2, Chrono Controller 35 % Dark Elemental (F), Dark Elemental (I), Dark Elemental (L) 23 % Dark Elemental (I), Dark Elemental (L), Dark Elemental (F) 6 % Dark Elemental (L), Dark Elemental (F), Dark Elemental (I)

Dark Elementals all over the freaking place. Reflect Rings are a must, and summon Syldra whenever you want to.

You are now in a cave-like area called the Hall of Doubt. Which way to go? Choices, choices. Going to the right will have you meet a dead end, so go to the left. You come across an Ether, and then a skull button! Press it to visibly move the rock that impeded your progress. Go back to the entrance and walk to the right, past the rock you moved. Walk up to the other skull button and pass it on the right side to find a chest with... a Mace of Zeus. A new weapon! The Mace of Zeus looks like a Staff, but damages like a Flail. You only equip Staves if you want to boost Holy with the Sage's Staff, and the Mace of Zeus doesn't do that. It has no purpose at all, sadly.

Return to the second skull button and push it to move the big rock back to its previous location. You're cut off from the entrance now, but you can get to another chest with some Dark Matter. Awesome. Get back to the second skull switch. You can ignore it, since we'll just pass it on the left side to find a hole in the ground. Get in there! You are now in the Hall of Watchmen.

Ruined Shrine - Hall of Watchmen: 35 % Mecha Head, Level Checker x 2 35 % Mecha Head x 2, Level Checker 23 % Mindflayer x 3 6 % Exoray x 5

Those Mecha Heads aren't Heavy, so Zantetsuken them in pieces, as with those Level Checkers. Mindflayers still suck, but Reflect Rings protect against all of Level Checker's attacks as well as the Mindflayer's Mind Blast and the Firaga attacks of those new enemies here, the Exoray.

Nobody likes Exoray. There are five different types, but they only really differ in their !Special Technique. They all got 5500 HP, are Heavy but are not protected from Death and are weak to Fire. Each turn they attack either physically (at which they're really proficient), use their !Special Technique (which includes a Paralyze, Poison, Darkness, Aging and Confuse variety) and a Firaga spell, which deals fatal amounts of damage. If you let a single Exoray live and then damage it, it'll re-spawn three destroyed Exoray Respawned Exoray counter HP damage with a 33% shot at Zombie Powder, which sucks like there's no tomorrow. Especially because you're wearing Reflect Rings, not Angel Rings. Take Exoray out with Firaga spells, !Combine's Flame Cannon (Blitzshot + Flame Scroll) and Flame Scrolls quickly does away with them; for longer battles, Ribbons and Golem help against those pesky !Special Techniques.

Anyway, Hall of Watchmen is where you are now, and there's no known way back. Going up will take you to an NPC whose pride and joy is all-purpose softener, curing Petrification even beyond a Gold Needle's reach. That'll be really useful exactly never. You should absolutely talk to him, or else a quest won't progress later and you'll have to backtrack. To the right lies a warp point to some place you have no business going to yet, so go to the left, where you'll enter Titan's Grotto.

Titan's Grotto - B2: 35 % Behemoth 35 % Behemoth, Yojimbo 23 % Gorgimera x 2 6 % Dinozombie

You've only seen King Behemoths so far. While conventional RPG wisdom dictates royal versions are always superior, these 'normal' Behemoths pack a stronger punch. They never do anything but counter any kind of HP damage with either a normal physical attack or the 150% damage !Critical Attack. When you slay them, they cast Meteor. You can circumvent this nasty business with setting either Poison or Sleep. Let the Behemoth snooze with either Time Slip, Sleep Spellblade effects or the Sleep spell, then kill the Behemoth with magical attacks. No counters, no Meteor!

That Dinozombie! It's Heavy, Dragon, Undead, immune to everything but weak to Holy-elemental attacks. It may use Bone, Poison Breath and the ever-aweful Zombie Breath, but Zombie Breath only on every third turn. Quickly kill it with the Apollo's Harp, Sage's Staff or repeated Holy spells, it'll go down quickly.

You'll want to take those Reflect Rings off now, as they're useless here. !Blue is great here because of Time Slip for the Behemoths and Missile for the Yojimbo and Gorgimera enemies. !Summon works wonders to deal powerful magical damage and to summon Odin on those Gorgimera encounters.

You can really only go one way here until you have the option of going down some stairs. Go there for an Elixir, then go back up and follow the path further into Titan's Grotto B1. Before you go though, make sure to use !Catch on a Behemoth in B2, and then not Release it. You'll need one in a story event; it's like that Kornago Gourd gig back in Quelb, only mandatory for the completion of this dungeon. Speaking of the Kornago Gourd, it'll make Catching the Behemoth much easier.

Titan's Grotto - B1: 35 % Iron Giant, Gorgimera 35 % Yojimbo x 2 23 % Iron Giant, Yojimbo 6 % Dinozombie

On B1 there are no new enemies, but also no Behemoths. Did you get one? You really should've. You can only go one way, and that's passing the waterfalls towards a chest containing the Vishnu Vest. Vishnu the preserver, great god of the Hindu, bestowed these Clothes with superior Defense and Magic Defense as well as halving Fire-, Ice- and Lightning-elemental damage by 50%. Nice armor, 'tis. We've exhausted all options on this side of the Hall of Watchmen. Let's get to that warp point! Travel back through Titan's Grotto and cross the Hall of Watchmen towards the warp point. Choose to warp. Welcome to the River of Souls. It's eh... I don't really know why there is a river of souls. Souls aren't made of water.

River of Souls - B1: 35 % Soul Eater 35 % Soul Eater x 2, Skull Eater x 2, Nutkin x 2 23 % Soul Eater, Skull Eater x 5 6 % Nutkin, Soul Eater x 4

River of Souls - B2: 35 % Rukh 35 % Belphegor, Crystelle x 2 23 % Vilia 6 % Mover x 3

River of Souls - B3: 35 % Sea Devil, Rukh 35 % Belphegor x 2, Crystelle 23 % Stingray 6 % Mover x 3

There were squirrels that ate nuts, okay. Then there were squirrels that ate skulls. Nasty, but doable. Now, they eat souls. The blue ones eat souls. They're harder than the other two obviously. They've got 7000 HP and there's no way to one-shot them, though you can put them to Sleep. They'll attack physically with quite some force and they may use Drain, Osmose and Death Claw. Their Special !Incisor sets Confuse, so watch out for that. Sometimes, you'll find a single Nutkin, and after its demise four Soul Eater appear. Surprise!

Skull Eaters fall quickly to stuff like Mind Blast, Bio, 1000 Needles, anything that pierces Magic Defense mostly. Ninja Scrolls and !Combine attacks kill them right quickly, leaving Soul Eaters at the mercy of your !Rapid Fire barrage. !Control is real useful in this dungeon as Rukh, Soul Eater, Vilia and Stingray are all powerful monsters that appear by themselves. Enemies here aren't particulary dangerous. It's the season for Hermes Sandals!

You are warped near the entrance to the River of Souls; going up will take you to the Sealed Temple's "Dungeon" area, but we don't want to go there. Let's take a look at the River of Souls. Walking into the water will have you taken away by the current to another location, so it's important to know which way you're going. I'm here for that.

Ignore the first staircase into the water and walk to the left. Take the second staircase into the water, and you'll be swept onto another platform. To the far right (ignore the option below) you'll see a chest with an Iron Draft. Go back to the split and go down below; there's a staircase here. Take it and the water'll take you to another chest with a Power Drink. We're stuck on this platform and there's no staircase, so drop down the hole to B2.

To the left is another chest, this one containing a Dark Matter. Go down the staircase here; the water'll take you to a new platform. A bit to the left is a new chest with a Turtle Shell (a lot of reagents in this dungeon!) Walk up 'til you see a path to your right. Ignore it, and go to the left, up and around the water until you see four staircases here. Which one, which one? The second one from the left is the one you want, as it'll take you to the lone island in the middle with the Elixir chest. Get it, walk down the staircase and you'll find yourself on a platform to the right. Go up and arch to the right to find your path blocked by a purple turtle. Cast Float on the team, then face it.

**Level:** 57, HP: 40000, MP: 1000 · **Defense:** 50, Magic Defense: 60 · **Evasion:** 50%, Magic Evasion: 60% · **Steal:** Turtle Shell (rare) · **Drop:** Grand Helm (always) · **Absorbs:** Water, Wind, Earth, Poison, Lightning, Fire · **Nullifies:** Holy · **Weakness:** Ice · **Status:** Protect, Shell · **Creature:** Undead, Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Turtle · **Special Technique Effect:** sets Darkness, Poison and Confuse · **Vulnerable to:** Slow, Regen · **Attacks:** Battle, !Turtle, Earthquake

Gil Turtle

This Gil Turtle is slightly different than the original one, but it don't matter much. A bit more HP, its defenses are slightly higher, that's about it. The same stategy you could've applied versus the original Gil Turtle still works here. For a longer description, please check out section 4.36.1

For now, it will probably do to mention how you should cast Dispel or use the Judgment Staff to remove the inherent Protect (and Shell) from the Gil Turtle, then enhance two swords with Blizzaga Spellblade effects and let loose with !Rapid Fire. It'll kill the fiend easily. In the meantime, do whatever. !Rapid Fire with the Sage's Staff, cast Quick and play on Apollo's Harp two times, cast Blizzaga on the thing, I don't care. This should be an easy battle with all the Golem, Mighty Guard, Mirage Vests and what have you. Make sure that Float is up (through Float or Mighty Guard) to avoid that final Earthquake attack when Gil Turtle's fat ass hits the ground.

When you're done, you get a Grand Helm. It's got a bit more on Defense than the Genji Helm, but doesn't protect against statuses. It's no option now that you're draped in Ribbons, but if you ever want to switch to a Heavy Armor Job again, it might be for you.

Anyway, continue down the hallway to find B3 of the River of Souls. This is a good place to find a Dragon Whisker, since the Stingray enemy appears an unprecedented 23% here.

To your right, you can find a chest with a Cottage. To your left, a long narrow path with nowhere to go but further down. When you press on, you'll encounter a split; to the left you'll meet a chest with a Fuma Shuriken just after a turn up north; pick up that chest, then continue. You'll walk up to a man standing there. He'll challenge you to go catch a Behemoth. But you already did! He releases the seal on the main door back at the start of this whole ordeal, where the real evilly evils lay waiting for you.

Walk back to River of Souls - B2. Continue on B2 while sticking to the right and later as far up as you can and you'll easily spot the entrance to B1. Walk to the right and never enter the water 'til you come at the spot where you were warped to in the first place, which is also where you can leave the River of Souls and enter the "Dungeon" part of the Sealed Temple. Simply walk around the jail cells towards the entrance here to find yourself out on top of the Sealed Temple.

I think it's time you headed back to that airshupmarine for a quick rest, Save and a new chapter...
