<a id="s4-54-2"></a>

### 4.54.2. The Sealed Temple; Arena

Opponents: Blue Dragon (#132), Red Dragon (#133), Yellow Dragon (#134), Mecha Head (#150), Grenade (#204), Level Checker (#207), Moss Fungus (#209), Great Dragon (#212), Achelon (#213), Ninja (#214), Dragon Aevis (#215), Sword Dancer (#216), Death Claw (#217), Fury (#218), Yojimbo (#219), Iron Giant (#220), Gorgimera (#224), Mindflayer (#225), Mini Satana (#229), Assassin (#230), Soul Eater (#231), Behemoth (#232), Dark Elemental (F) (#233), Dark Elemental (I) (#234), Dark Elemental (L) (#235), Exoray (#236), Duelist (#237), Dinozombie (#239), Claret Dragon (#240), Ironclad (#241), Grand Aevis (#315), Archeodemon (#316)

Container contents: Apocalypse, Blastshot, Blitzshot x2, Buckshot, Cottage x4, Dark Matter x4, Elixir, Ether x2, Fuma Shuriken x2, Gladius, Hero Cocktail, Holy Water x2, Hyper Wrist, Kagenui, Longinus, Phoenix Down, Royal Crown, Sorceror's Mantle, Turtle Shell, Water Scroll

Miscellaneous items: Flame Shield (rare Grenade steal), Artemis Bow (rare Dragon Aevis steal), Enhancer (rare Sword Dancer steal), Thor Hammer (rare Death Claw steal), Cursed Ring (rare Fury steal), Reflect Ring (common Fury steal), Murakumo (rare Yojimbo steal), Aegis Shield (rare Gorgimera steal), Main Gauche (rare Mindflayer steal), Earthbreaker (rare Ironclad steal), Fairy Bow (guaranteed Grand Aevis drop), Chaos Orb (guaranteed Archeodemon drop)

Blue spells: Level 5 Death, Level 4 Graviga, Level 2 Old, Level 3 Flare, Death Claw, Aeroga, Flame Thrower, Mind Blast, Vampire, Mighty Guard, Self-Destruct, ???, White Wind, Missile

You can open the doors into the main room of the Sealed Temple now, called the "Arena". Note that the common Assassin encounter here features an (Image) version only, and the rare Assassin encounters features both like normal.

Sealed Temple - Arena: 35 % Mini Satana 35 % Assassin (Image) 23 % Red Dragon, Blue Dragon 6 % Assassin, Assassin (Image)

Walking into the Arena, you'll soon come across two options; you can take the top route or the bottom one. The top route will take you to a dead end, so take the bottom one. Walk around until you can reach a chest containing a Dark Matter, enter the hidden passage left of the chest for a Hero Cocktail. Now walk south of the Dark Matter chest to find another chest with a Holy Water and a passage leading further in.

There are two options here. There's a hidden passage which takes you to the Gladius (a Holy-elemental Knife that boosts Agility a bit). If you're working with Freelancers, you won't use it. Get back through the hidden passage and walk north, where your progress is impeded by a statue. You can't even try to use a Gold Needle on it. Make sure to interact with it, though, else you won't be able to solve its mysteries. We'll need that multi-softener after all! Whodda thunk it. There was this NPC in the Hall of Watchmen who had it, remember? We'll need to go there again. Leave this place and return to the outside of the Sealed Temple.

Enter the right door, into the "Corridor". At the split in the Corridor, walk south towards the two warp points you never used. The left one will take you to a part of Titan's Grotto you haven't been to yet. You'll appear next to a chest with some Dark Matter in it. You can only walk to the right from here, then take the stairs down for an Elixir. Walk towards the waterfall to your left, and let it sweep you down to the level below you, where you can find the entrance to B2. Here, simply follow the path down 'til you appear in the Hall of Watchmen.

In the Hall of Watchmen, go north as soon as you can to find the NPC you need. He'll be more than happy to give you his invention (as long as you interacted with the statue), but it'll only last 5:00 minutes when he takes it out of the Tupperware or something. So you gotta get to that statue in under 5 minutes! Piece of cake with Read Ahead, don't worry.

From the NPC, walk to the right and take the warp point there. It'll take you to the River of Souls B1, but just go up and leave that place to find yourself in the "Dungeon" of the Sealed Temple. Simply walk to the left and around the jail cells to leave it, then enter the big doors in the middle. You'll remember this place, so just walk to the statue and use the softening serum, but only when you're prepared...

**Level:** 97, HP: 42000, MP: 20000 · **Defense:** 60, Magic Defense: 40 · **Evasion:** 30%, Magic Evasion: 20% · **Steal:** Cottage (rare) · **Win:** Fairy's Bow (always) · **Absorbs:** Fire, Ice, Lightning, Wind · **Status:** Float · **Creature:** Heavy, Aevis · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **Attacks:** !Wing Attack, Blaster, Breath Wing, Evil Eye, Maelstrom, Paraclete,

Grand Aevis Poison Breath, Zombie Breath, Zombie Powder

**Level:** 74, HP: 5500, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 70, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Hi-Potion (rare) · **Win:** nothing · **Nullifies:** Fire, Ice, Lightning · **Creature:** Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** Slow, Stop · **Attacks:** Aeroga, White Wind, Self-Destruct

Dark Elemental

Grand Aevis is very difficult to deal with. First off, he's very very fast, so he'll keep up with you if you're Hasted and will double-turn you if you're not. Second, he'll throw a barrage of attacks at you that are difficult to defend against; all of the attacks listed above with the exception of Paraclete he'll use randomly. Few straigth-damage attacks as you can see, but both Maelstrom and Breath Wing are very dangerous, let alone Zombie Breath. Ribbons will protect against Evil Eye. Angel Rings will help against Zombie Powder which is otherwise unblockable, so I advise you wear them.

Then, there's the Dark Elementals. They're different from the random ones in that they have no elemental weakness and won't react to elemental spells. They'll just sit there and randomly use White Wind and Aeroga. When they're both destroyed and Grand Aevis suffers HP damage, they'll be revived with full HP. They're bad news because they heal Grand Aevis with White Wind all the time and they're the Grand Aevis' defense against !Rapid Fire as with them around !Rapid Fire will often target the Dark Elementals, and Grand Aevis will be in the back row halving most physical attacks.

There is no quick victory here, you'll just want to set Slow and then be able to nuke Grand Aevis in the back while at all times you're able to counter attacks sent your way. You start the battle out with Angel Rings most likely, not Hermes Sandals, so it's likely you'll get your first turn while you've suffered already. Slow Cannon works wonders; you can't really set Slow with conventional attacks since Grand Aevis has such a high level and Magic Evasion. Masamune-wielders will get a turn prior to everybody else, so use that knowledge to your advantage to get either Slow Cannon or Mighty Guard up before anything else happens on-screen. Flare and Holy are the supreme spells to use; they ignore Grand Aevis' Magic Defense and are powerful and targetable.

!Rapid Fire is generally a waste, since there's those Dark Elementals on- screen most of the time. !Rapid Firing an Aevis Killer will take care of the back row issue and will always deal critical damage to the Grand Aevis. You could deal decent amounts of damage if you get Flare Spellblade effects going on and find yourself in a situation where you get Grand Aevis alone. Dark Elementals take a lot of damage from boosted Syldra, !Combine attacks such as Holy Cannon (Hero Cocktail + Blitzshot). You get a Fairy's Bow for your trouble, the strongest Bow there is. It has a 12% chance of casting Confuse on the target; quite useless.

When you're done, follow the path until you you find the exit. Go up and find the chest with an Ether in it before you leave this place, then leave this place. You have entered the Heart of Ronka.

Heart of Ronka - Treasure Room: 59 % Exoray x 5 35 % Iron Giant x 2 6 % Ironclad

Exoray will be your most frequent encounter here, and since the Iron Giant can be Zantetsuken'd really the only encounter to worry about. They're weak to Fire, so !Combine Flame Cannon (Flame Scroll + Blitzshot) and Firaga takes care of them quick. If you find yourself to be slow, Reflect Rings help against the Exoray's Firaga spells.

You very rarely run into Ironclad, an Iron Giant upgrade. It's Heavy and immune to everything. It's got very potent physical attacks obviously, as well as Rocket Punch and Hurricane. Summon Golem versus this guy, as every kind of HP damage will be countered by either a normal physical or the barrier-piercing, unblockable !Takedown. With 22000 HP, it's best to make sure you attack as few times as possible. !Rapid Fire's nice, but provokes two counters in a row so beware. You can steal a rare Earthbreaker, the most powerful Axe there is, but I'll talk about it when you find one.

In the Treasure Room, you'll find four chests from the get-go: Ether x 2 and two Fuma Shuriken. Go south and find a Dark Matter and a Cottage where the path splits. Go south for a Cottage, a Blitzshot and the Sorceror's Mantle, a cloak that halves all elemental attacks in damage and adds 10% Evasion and 20% Magic Evasion. Stick to your Hermes Sandals. Get back to the split, and walk to the right for two Holy Water items. Walk south and head into the B1 level.

Heart of Ronka - B1: 35 % Mecha Head x 2, Level Checker 35 % Mindflayer x 3 30 % Exoray x 5

Here, you only find a chest featuring the Kagenui, the strongest Ninja blade which attempts to cast Stop 20% of the time. The Kagenui has something to do with pinning your opponent's shadow to the ground or whatever. It adds to your Agility and is Spellblade OK, so you might want to equip it. Now, get back to the Treasure Room, get to the split and walk to the left, where you find a Blitzshot and a Phoenix Down and can now enter B1 from the other side.

You can walk to the right, but you'll just reach the Kagenui chest from an unapproachable angle. Go south to find a heavy stone / chest puzzle similair to Ghido's submerged cave.

1 2 5 3 4

Take the stone from chest #5 and deposit it in #1. Enter the opened door and find a Blastshot and a Buckshot. Return and deposit the stone in #4. The leftmost door opened now; pick up Hyper Wrist. The Hyper Wrist boosts Strength by 5 and Battle Power by 10, but won't give Battle Power to weapons that have none (Rune Bow, Power Staff) or that work with magical attacks (Rods, Harps). Put the stone in chest #3 to further your journey into B2.

Heart of Ronka - B2: 42 % Exoray x 5 35 % Mindflayer x 2, Achelon 23 % Iron Giant x 2

In B2, you'll see a chest to the right immediately. It's a Cottage, go get it. You'll find a rotating chain lift that you encountered earlier in the Ruins section of the Interdimensional Rift; climb down to enter the Warp Zone, which is nowhere near as handy as the Warp Zone in that classic Mario game.

Warp Zone: 35 % Mecha Head, Level Checker x 2 35 % Moss Fungus x 3 23 % Exoray x 5 6 % Moss Fungus x 2, Mindflayer

Right and then up will take you to a warp point that'll take you to the start of the Sealed Temple, but we don't want to go there. No, you'll want to go down and then walk to the right to find a total of five rotating chains you can choose from. All but the left-most one will take you at some point in a series of rooms connected with hidden passages. Best to take the second from the left, walk into the hidden passage to the left and follow it to a chest containing an Apocalypse, a Knightsword even stronger than the Ragnarok. Good stuff for your !Spellblade !Rapid Fire monkey. Return to the Warp Zone and take the left-most rotating chain out of the five to B2. Enter the small hidden passage to your left at B2 and go all the way up. See that long staircase, flanked by statues to your left? Go down that staircase to find yourself in the Abyssal Falls.

Abyssal Falls - B1: 35 % Duelist x 5 35 % Assassin, Assassin (Image) 23 % Great Dragon, Dragon Aevis 6 % Soul Eater x 3

Duelist appears as a single brawler, but after every !Special Technique he'll change into a random other Duelist. HP is carried over, status ailments are not. The purpose of this all is that a single Duelist will appear to have five different Special Techniques:

!Left Jab (150% damage) !Air Fist (sets Old and Sap) !High Kick (sets Paralyze) !Elbow (Unblockable and barrier-piercing) !Body Slam (Unblockable, barrier-piercing, adds Paralyze)

Duelist has 15000 HP and is a Human. Any HP damage is countered by a 33% shot at (Strong) Attack, which deals 9999 damage and kills a character. It's best to use !Rapid Fire with one or more Man-Eaters; instant kill, no fuss. Berserk can also be set to circumvent the (Strong) Attack threat, but it will boost Duelist's already impressive physical might.

Walk to the right of the massive waterfall and then go down. Keep sticking to the right as much as possible, and you'll be passing two chests containing a Cottage and the Royal Crown. The latter is interesting because it features 5% Evasion and truly superior Magic Defense and 10% Magic Evasion. Freelancers will want a Ribbon or Gold Hairpin still, but if you turn back into a Job that cannot equip Ribbons and can't benefit from Gold Hairpins, the Royal Crown is a sweet helmet every Job can use. You can find a staircase going down to B2 south of the Royal Crown chest.

Abyssal Falls - B2: 35 % Duelist x 5 35 % Great Dragon, Dragon Aevis 23 % Mini Satana x 2 6 % Dark Elemental (I), Dark Elemental (L), Dark Elemental (F)

Go down two stairs until you see an opening protected by a magic barrier. This is the path leading into Neo Shinryu's Roost, we'll get there later. To the right here, you can find a staircase leading down in the the Treasure Room of the Abyssal Falls.

Abyssal Falls - Treasure Room: 35 % Duelist x 5 35 % Assassin, Assassin (Image), Yojimbo 23 % Assassin, Assassin (Image), Ninja 6 % Claret Dragon

Take the Dark Matter x 2, Turtle Shell, Water Scroll and Cottage. Why they made a Treasure Room for these is unknown. Go back up to B2 and walk to the left, past the blocked entrance to Shinryu's Roost. A waterfall is blocking your way; it'll always sweep you downwards. You can open a chest for a Coral Ring here. The button briefly stops the waterfall from flowing, but you'll need to Dash after pressing that button to pass the waterfall before it starts flowing again. If you made it, you find yourself in the Hall of Tranquility. No monsters here, just a Save Point and a pale, yellow-eyed NPC who tells you what's up:

There are three more enemies to go after. There's Omega Mk. II to the left, there's Neo Shinryu to the right and there's Enuo to the south. But your progress to Enuo halted as of yet; you need to defeat Archeodemon first. He's all the way at the start of the Sealed Temple! No worries, we won't have to travel far. Up north in the Hall of Tranquility, go get the Longinus, the strongest Lance of this game. Go Save, then make the journey home.

Pass through Abyssal Falls B2 and then B1. You're back at the Heart of Ronka. Go up the long stairway flanked with statues, then go back south in the parallel hallway 'til you see the rotating chain lift to your right. Go down to enter the Warp Zone. Walk to the right and then up to find a warp point leading to the start of the dungeon. You're back! You can go rest and save at the Airshupmarine if you want to. It's the left door we want, leading to the "Dungeon" part of the Sealed Temple. In the middle jail, the Archeodemon is waiting for us. Equipped as we are with the jail key, we can open 'er up and face the music.

**Level:** 17, HP: 50000, MP: 62000 · **Defense:** 80, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Phoenix Down (rare) · **Win:** Chaos Orb (always) · **Absorbs:** Fire, Ice, Lightning, Poison, Holy, Earth, Wind, Water · **Status:** Protect (always) · **Creature:** Heavy, Magic Beast, Undead · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Slow · **Attacks:** Flare, Holy, Meteor, ???, Curse, Drain Touch, Giga Flare, Mega Flare

Archeodemon

Don't worry, with proper preparation he won't rip much. Archeodemon is a vile thing, an Undead abertation that uses Dark Arts. He's a monster, allright. He's got a few "things". Thing 1 is that he uses Flare, Mega Flare and Giga Flare. Flare and Giga Flare deal around 2300 to non-Shelled targets, the latter to all charactes on-screen. Mega Flare does around 2000. Remember that Flare and Mega Flare can be Reflected, but Giga Flare cannot; also note that Giga Flare will not be accompanied by a weakness in defense like it did with Twintania.

Thing 2 is how he's difficult to damage. The bastard absorbs all elements and will counter any non-Magic attack with a Death spell focused on itself, meaning full HP restoration. You could set Reflect on the Archeodemon to prevent Death from landing, but you'll still have to deal with the Death spell coming your way (not ideal) and Archeodemon's inherent Protect and massive Defense.

Archeodemon will start the battle with Drain Touch, a GBA-only attack that will feature your Dark Arts skillset in the future. Second turn, it'll cast Flare. He'll then go all "Focusing Power" like, wait for two turns and then cast either Mega Flare (66%) or Giga Flare (33%). He'll keep looping this until he's damaged below 20000 HP, at which point he'll start randomly casting Flare, Holy and Meteor spells, through in a random Hurrican attack, Death spell or Drain Touch, spend every fourth turn Focusing Power, then waiting a single turn before using either Giga Flare (66%) or Mega Flare (33%). In the meantime, he'll counter any non-Magic attack with a Death spell focused on himself and any Magic spell with either Curse (33%), the Blue ??? spell (33%) or nothing. He will not counter when he's Focusing Power.

Drain Touch is a HP draining attack that is about twice as strong as Drain, will never miss and in a shocking turn of events does NOT have inverse effects on the Undead, so you can drain HP from them and Bone Mail wearers without problems. Curse sets a random status ailment out of Toad, Mini, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Confuse, Berserk, Silence and HP Leak; Ribbon -wearers will be well-protected.

Archedemon has no weakness as such; he's Undead so Apollo's Harp and the Sage's Staff can be used to great effects, but he'll counter with Death so it's a no-go unless you set Reflect. I wouldn't really advise you go ahead with that strategy though. Your biggest asset in this battle is the !Time skillset. As a single creature with 0 Magic Defense, Archeodemon is a prime target for Meteor spells. Everybody who can cast Meteor can also cast Quick. I'd suggest four characters with !Time 6, paired with !Dualcast where possible. Sling Meteor spells after Meteor spells after the guy. The only drawback is that Archeodemon may counter with either Curse (will likely have no effect) and ???, the latter will kill a character when it lands. Since Meteor hits multiple times, Archeodemon may counter up to two times. Since Archeodemon will use no physical attacks and all of his attacks pierce Magic Defense, the only thing you could want from equipment is stat boosts and Magic Evasion; Angel Robe (25% ME) and Black and White Robes (20%) are superior in this department. You'll avoid a lot of ??? attacks equipped with these, especially with Shell up.

So! Get in there, cast Mighty Guard and then either cast Quick/Meteor/Meteor or Meteor/Quick/Meteor/Meteor/Meteor/Meteor. Gold Hairpins are handy here, as this strategy is MP-heavy. Flare is also an option instead of Meteor, but it'll come out weaker. !Combine's Slow Cannon isn't an option, as the Death counter will also remove Slow. When Archeodemon manages to get in a lucky ??? attack, revive and continue. Archeodemon should never really get into "Focusing Power", as he should be dead before he gets there.

When you slay the fiend, the warp point leading into the Lethe Court will be opened up to you. Leave the "Dungeon" to go outside, then enter the big door in the middle. In the "Arena", walk towards the Heart of Ronka, go left at the first split, go down until you encounter the chest puzzle, put the stone in the bottom-left chest, go to the left in the Heart of Ronka, find the large staircase flanked by statues, go down into the Abyssal Falls B1 and later B2, where you must go to the right and Dash after pushing the skeleton button to stop, drop and roll behind the waterfall. In the Hall of Tranquility, go Cottage and Save and prepare for the Lethe Court.

Take the warp point below the NPC.
