<a id="s4-54-3"></a>

### 4.54.3. The Sealed Temple; The Lethe Court

Opponents: Great Dragon, (#212), King Behemoth (#221), Crystal Dragon (#222), Assassin (#230), Behemoth (#232), Dinozombie (#239), Claret Dragon (#240), Ironclad (#241), Hades (#242), Guardian (#317), Launcher (#318), Launcher (#319), Wave Cannon (#320), Enuo (#323)

Container contents: Elixir, Mutsunokami, Robe of Lords

**Miscellaneous items:** Earthbreaker (rare Ironclad steal), Cursed Ring (rare

Hades steal), Bone Mail (rare Hades drop and rare Enuo steal), Crystal Orb (guaranteed Guardian drop)

Blue spells: Doom, Roulette, Flash, Flame Thrower, Dark Spark, Off-Guard, Mighty Guard, Missile

Lethe Court - The Shadowed Gate 35 % Ironclad 35 % Assassin, Assassin (Image), Dinozombie 23 % King Behemoth, Behemoth 6 % Hades

Here be dragons, watch out. I mean 'dragons' here metaphorically, there are not really dragons here. Ironclad, Assassin and Dinozombie require Golem and powerful attacks. King Behemoth isn't Heavy, Behemoth is vulnerable to Sleep. Hades is new. He's not a good boy.

**Level:** 97, HP: 33333, MP: 10000 · **Defense:** 30, Magic Defense: 40 · **Evasion:** 50%, Magic Evasion: 60% · **Steal:** Cursed Ring (rare) · **Win:** Bone Mail (rare) · **Absorbs:** Poison, Weakness: Holy · **Creature:** Undead, Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** Slow, Stop · **Attacks:** !Sickle, Death, Flare, Dark Spark, Doom, Roulette, Curse, Deep

Hades Freeze, Meltdown, Almagest, Reaper's Sword

It seems Azulmagia was only a single example of a race of giant Blue Mages. Hades has 33333 HP, is Heavy, Undead and immune to everything you'd like to set on it. It uses Black spells (Flare, Death), Blue spells (Doom, Roulette, Dark Spark), Dark Arts (Deep Freeze, Meltdown, Curse) and two impressive monster attacks: Reaper's Sword and ALMAGEST. That thing uses Almagest, you just lost over 5000 HP on the entire party. The only things that can protect you against that are Aegis Shield (33% nullify), Sorceror's Mantle (50% damage), Shell status (50% damage) and the Force Shield (nullifies). Whatta guy. Deep Freeze and Meltdown both inflict sufficient damage to kill the character it targets, unless it's protected from Ice (Deep Freeze) or Fire (Meltdown).

Kill these things ASAP. You can't use !Control or !Catch on these guys, which is a pain. Quick + Apollo's Harp, all the Holy spells you can throw at it, stuff like that. Hades counters Magic with either Flare (33%) or Death (33%) and non-Magic with !Sickle (33%), so Carbuncle prior to Holy slaying might be a good idea. Also note that Hades is not fickle with that !Sickle and will leave quite a mark.

The path here is crystal clear. There's a chest with a Mutsunokami (strongest katana with a 50% (!) critical percentage) and an Elixir. Find the eldritch warp point. You´ll be transported to another part of the Shadowed Gate; nothing to do here but find the next eldritch warp point. Another part of the Shadowed Gate here; there's the next warp point to the left of you, which leads to the Stairs of Destiny.

Lethe Court - The Stairs of Destiny 35 % Ironclad 35 % Crystal Dragon x 2 23 % Claret Dragon, Great Dragon 6 % Hades

Bend to the right and follow the stairs unil you find the Robe of Lords, a Robe with truly superior Defense, Magic Defense and Magic Evasion (24%). No special properties. Get back to the entrance of the SoD, then go to the left. You'll meet a sparkle.

**Level:** 97, HP: 55000, MP: 60000 · **Defense:** 40, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Blitzshot (rare) · **Win:** Crystal Orb (always) · **Absorbs:** Lightning · **Creature:** Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** nothing · **Attacks:** Gravity, Graviga, Off-Guard, Atomic Ray, Delta Attack, Electrocute,

Guardian Encircle, Reverse Polarity,

**Level:** 97, HP: 22000, MP: 55000 · **Defense:** 20, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Blitzshot (rare) · **Absorbs:** Lightning · **Creature:** Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** nothing · **Attacks:** Wave Cannon

Wave Cannon

**Level:** 97, HP: 20000, MP: 50000 · **Defense:** 10, Magic Defense: 10 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 10% · **Steal:** Blastshot (rare) · **Absorbs:** Lightning · **Creature:** Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** nothing

Launcher x2 Attacks (Left one): Missile, (Valiant Attack), Rainbow Wind, Rocket Punch Attacks (Right one): Flash, Missile, (Valiant Attack), Mustard Bomb

Guardian! Throwback to FFIII for the SNES? Who knows. The Guardian will feel like this dungeon's easiest boss fight, but it still a nice challenge. The Guardian has three additional animus' built into it. There are two Launchers that simultaneously attack you and protect the Guardian itself, and there is the Wave Cannon front panel that does nothing until it's ready to fire, at which point it performs a double Wave Cannon attack. You're either having one or more character in the air with !Jump, or you've lost your battle as double Wave Cannon deals 100% of your maximum HP and inflicts Sap just for the hell of it. The Guardian itself is immune to attacks until you've destroyed both Launchers, at which point you can start damaging it.

You'll start the battle being attacked by the two Launchers and the Wave Cannon front panel starting its countdown. The Launcher on top is capable of using the nameless (Valiant Attack), which is a missile attack which cuts current HP by 50% and sets Old. In addition, it may use Missile, Rocket Punch and Rainbow Wind. The other Launcher can use (Valiant Attack), and Flash, Missile and Mustard Bomb. Both Launchers have 20000 HP; every first turn is (Valiant Attack), every second turn is one of the other options.

The Wave Cannon goes like this:

**DIFFUSION BEAM CANNON:** ONLINE · **LASER CROSSHAIR BRIGHTNESS:** 20 · **SAFETY LOCK:** OFFLINE · **BLAST SHIELDING:** ACTIVATED · **ENERGY CELLS:** 128% CAPACITY

BARREL PRESSURE RISING FIRING - (dual Wave Cannon)

You'll want to destroy both Launchers and the Wave Cannon, then pound on the Guardian itself. The Guardian itself won't start attacking until it's Launchers have been destroyed, at which point it'll start off with a Delta Attack. Three more attacks can be performed, after which Guardian will have repaired both Launchers. When those are back, it'll turn itself invincible again.

Ribbons, Bone Mail and Angel Rings are what protect you from the weakening effects of (Valiant Attack). Ribbons are best, since they also help against Delta Attack, Flash and Rainbow Wind. The most important target to focus on is the Wave Cannon, as that's the countdown to Game Over part of the machine. In the meantime, you'll take percentage-based damage, but with all them Ribbons on yer head, you won't suffer a lot. Next up, time to take out the Launchers. !Dualcast Holy and Dual-Wield Flare Spellblade effects are very powerful in this fight. Once when the Launchers are gone, Guardian will be a lone target. Time to bust out !Rapid Fire, !Dualcast Meteor, stuff you know and like.

For your troubles, you'll get a Crystal Orb. It'll give you +5 Magic Power, superior Magic Defense and 12% Magic Evasion, once more proving there are tons of ways to be inferior to Hermes Sandals.

Ascend for the final showdown. Lethe Court - The Void is bereft of any random encounters.

The story of Bartz, Lenna, Krile and Faris mirrors the story of the Dawn Warriors 30 years ago, but it also mirrors the story of mysterious group of warriors 1000 years ago. These warriors took up the Twelve Legendary Weapons (which takes at least fourteen hands) at faced a terrible mage called Enuo. Enuo was immortal, but traded away his immortality for even greater power; power over the Void. It is said that Enuo was slain by the Twelve Legendary Weapons, leaving the Void behind. But it seems that Enuo's evil is not easily destroyed...

**Level:** 97, HP: 60000, MP: 65000 · **Defense:** 100, Magic Defense: 30 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 120% · **Creature:** Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** Slow, Stop · **Attacks:** Protect, Shell, Berserk, Holy, Poison, Bio, Firaga, Blizzaga,

Enuo Thundaga, Flare, Osmose, Regen, Haste, Slowga, Graviga, Meteor, Aqua Breath, Aeroga, Pond's Chorus, Drain Touch, Deep Freeze, Meltdown, Evil Eye, White Hole, Grand Cross, Giga Flare

This fight is actually two fights in a row. There's the first fight with Enuo, which is difficult. Then the Power of the Void increases, after which a refreshed Enuo will attack you again with inherent Protect and Shell with a few very dangerous attacks.

Enuo starts with two tentacles that aid him in his endeavors. These tentacles are invulnerable and not normally targetable, but random-target attacks such as !Rapid Fire and the Meteor spell may still hit them. The tentacles cannot be removed from the fight and cast spells and perform other attacks as well as Enuo does. The tentacles are responsible for the buff spells that may appear during the fight, as well as the rare Grand Cross and Giga Flare attacks.

I highly advise four Freelancers for this fight. Since so many status- ailments will be thrown around the battlefield, Ribbons are a must and Mimes cannot equip them. After the Power of the Void increases, Enuo will start to use Danse Macabre fairly often, and you really don't want that to have any effect. Angel Rings are a must-have accessory for this season's fashion anyway!

The majority of Enuo's attacks are reflectable so it's tempting so summon Carbuncle ASAP. Make sure you get Mighty Guard before you do this though; certain spells (Aqua Breath, Meteor, the Dark Arts) will still hit a target with Reflect set, and you'll want the Shell status on the entire party to protect yourself against those attacks. Mighty Guard is vulnerable to Reflect, so you can't cast it after Carbuncle has arrived. Not having Reflect is also an option if you want to keep the option for Curaga open. ST spells may kill a character though, even with Shell applied. Dude, it's ENUO. He murders Light Warriors for breakfast, lunch and dinner.

After Enuo has taken about five turns, one of the tentacles will always use Grand Cross, which may even harm those with a Ribbon equipped should it decide to set Confuse, a Countdown 'til Death or HP to a single-digit level. When Enuo makes like a chameleon and starts taking on the colour of the ever- changing psychadelic anime background, you know it's coming. After about ten turns of Enuo action, the same tentacle will unleash a Giga Flare attack, but it'll deal around 2000 damage to non-Shelled targets so it's no biggie (relatively). Again, Giga Flare is heralded by Enuo's colour-swapping madness.

Since Enuo has two fake targets, !Rapid Fire and Meteor will only hit 33% of the time. The Holy spell, boosted by either the Sage's Staff or a Rune Chime, is a very powerful and consistent means of damage output. Boosted level 5 Black spells are also quite powerful. Flare Spellblade effects can make weapons like the Ragnarok and Apocalypse very powerful, and when they do land they inflict a massive beating.

In conclusion, for the first fight I advise at least one !Blue caster for Mighty Guard and emergency White Wind spells at least two !White casters for Curaga, Arise and mostly Holy spells (!Dualcast is really nice) and all

characters equipped with Ribbons and Angel Rings. !Time is a nice asset for Hastega and Quick. You may even wish to employ somebody with !Mix to use Goliath Tonics on the party in preparation of increased Void Power. !Combine can be good for Slow Cannon if you find Enuo's quantity of attacks unbearable.

The Power of the Void is increasing!

There is now more of nothing. Or possibly the nothing is more powerful. Enuo is truly powerful. Socrates said: "The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing." and Mark Twain said: "Against the assault of laughter nothing can stand." The Buddha said: "To live a pure unselfish life, one must count nothing as one's own in the midst of abundance.". So our foe is a truly wise altruist who has moved past frivolities. Don't think this is all talk about some philosophical abstract either. As Voltaire said, a witty remark proves nothing.

**Level:** 97, HP: 60000, MP: 65000 · **Defense:** 100, Magic Defense: 30 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 120% · **Steal:** Bone Mail (rare) · **Status:** (Always) Protect, (Always) Shell · **Creature:** Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** nothing · **Attacks:** !Dimension Zero, Holy, Flare, Meteor, Level 3 Flare, Level 4 Graviga,

Enuo Level 5 Death, Drain Touch, Deep Freeze, Meltdown, Almagest, Grand Cross, Danse Macabre, Reaper's Sword, White Whole, Hurricane, Mealstrom

Enuo has restored its HP back to 60000 HP, and with inherent Protect and Shell set, removing it will be quite a chore. On the upside, Enuo has done away with the two tentacles, which means !Rapid Fire greatly increased in accuracy. On the downside, it'll only deal half damage compared to the first round.

When Enuo has regenerated himself, he'll start off with a brutal double-turn which may feature !Dimension Zero, Meteor or Almagest (equal chance) followed by either !Dimension Zero, White Hole or Maelstrom. If Golem was up, he could have taken a single !Dimension Zero. When all that is past and you're still standing, Enuo is now done with you. He'll cast according to the following loop:

- !Dimension Zero, Meteor or Almagest !Dimension Zero, White Hole or Maelstrom - Flare, Holy or Delta Attack - Almagest (66%) or Grand Cross (33%) - Drain Touch, Deep Freeze or Meltdown - Level 3 Flare, Level 4 Graviga or Level 5 Death - !Dimension Zero (loop)

Enuo even has interesting counter-attacks! Whenever he suffers damage, he'll counter with either White Hole (33%), Danse Macabre (33%) or nothing. Every even time he is damaged, he counters with Reaper's Sword (33%), Hurricane (33%) or nothing. Reaper's Sword kills any character without a Ribbon. White Hole kills and petrifies any character without a Ribbon. Danse Macabre sets Zombie to any character without an Angel Ring. See why you want those items?

Enuo is difficult to damage at this point, as all damage is halved. You cannot remove Protect or Shell, and Enuo is now immune even to Slow. It's a true slugfest, this fight. There are a few attacks that will prove much more powerful than the others. Above and beyond the competition is !Rapid Fire with Flare Spellblade effects applied. Second, when !Finisher calls for an elemental attack, the 9999 damage will not be affected by any kind of damage inhibitor, but this is a 50% chance at best. Should you have a !Mix user with doubled HP from a Goliath's Tonic, any mix that deals (current HP) damage will be quite powerful compared to other powerful attacks. Some examples include Holy Breath (Holy Water + Dragon Fang) and Dragon Breath (two Dragon Fangs). Finally, Needle Cannon will deal 3000 damage. This is not a lot, but it's still probably more than normal magical attacks and since Slow Cannon is a such a help in the first fight, it's not unreasonable to assume that you have !Combine around.

If you failed to bring the Angel Rings, you'll have a fun time removing Zombie from characters only to find yourself stuck with low-HP characters while Enuo rains destruction upon your sorry ass. If you failed to equip Ribbons on certain characters, please enjoy them going down almost continuously. If you did both, it's still a decent fight Enuo puts up; Almagest is powerful, !Dimension Zero is powerful, a stray Level # Blue spell may fuck you up completely. Only a combination of Mighty Guard, Goliath's Tonics for everybody and prime numbers on your level will truly keep you safe.

When Enuo falls, he falls hard. There's an earthquake in space, then there are explosions in space. Worst. Final. Battle. Ever. Note that while this battle is very reminiscent of the battle versus Exdeath, Enuo does not respawn after you kill him once.
