<a id="s4-55-1"></a>

### 4.55.1. The Dark Arts

When you awaken, you find yourself near a crystal shard. Since all other options are prohibited at the moment, pick it up. Prisoned within the shard is the deliciously evil spirit of an ancient Necromancer 'hero'.

The Necromancer equips Rods and Knives, Hats, Robes and Armlets like any typical mage-type Job, and all of his Dark Arts are based off the Necromancer's Magic Power. He's got comparable Magic Power to a Black Mage; quite decent and just a bit lower than the Summoner and the Oracle. What's noteworthy about the Necromancer is his Strength (a small bonus compared to vanilla Freelancer) which is completely useless and his Stamina, which is very high for a Robe-type; higher even than the Knight! Not quite the luxury you might imagine, though...

The Necromancer is inherently quasi-Undead, sort of. He takes damage from all kinds of healing attacks; Cure/Cura/Curaga, Nightingale, all types of potions, you name it. Drain attacks such as Drain, Vampire and Drain Kiss invert when the target is a Necromancer. He is in all regards like a regular Undead creature or like a character wearing a Bone Mail, but there is one very important difference; the Necromancer's reaction to revival items, spells and attacks. They'll never kill a Necromancer when one is alive; they'll just set HP to a single digit. If Necromancer is down, you CAN revive him or her; Arise will set HP to full, Phoenix will set HP and MP back to full, you name it. This is an important benefit over Bone Mail-type of turning Undead.

**The Necromancer can therefor be healed by:** White Wind, using draining moves

WITH the Necromancer, using draining moves ON the Necromancer and simply reviving the Necromancer when he's down and out.

The Chaos Orb is an Accessory that raises Fire, Ice and Lightning-elemental damage by 50% and gives inherent Regen and some Magic Defense. This frees up a weapon for another purpose than elemental boosting, so you'll probably want to end up with a Main Gauche unless you set a "Equip X" support ability for who knows what reason. But it's not that good. Main Gauche gives 33% an additional physical evasion check. By using a Protect Ring and a Magus Rod, you've got the Air- and Poison-elemental boosted, more Magic Defense, way more Defense and better Regen healing, I'd say you can forget all about that Chaos Orb.

Dark Arts are sweet. Their main purpose is to blanket the enemy party in powerful elemental mayhem that kills. Drain Touch, Dark Haze and Curse are just to have a bit of fun. All elemental spells are equally strong; Dark Flare piercies Magic Defense like Flare does and Doomsday is just the strongest attack. If you boost elements, the more easily acquired elemental attacks are way stronger than either Dark Flare or Doomsday, so when you learn Hellwind you already learned the best attack the Necromancer will ever use!

For more information on the Necromancer, take a look at [NECROMANCER-LINK]

It is now time to travel the lands to collect all of the Dragonballs. I mean, all of the clues that uncover the location of the Holy Grail. I mean, the Dark Arts. There's a Mindflayer right in front of you to kick things off!

Drain Touch Anyway, there's a Mindflayer patiently waiting for its demise at the hands of a Necromancer. Set !Summon or !Black on the Necromancer and kill the Mindflayer with an attack coming from a Necromancer. You just learned Drain Touch, an unblockable HP-draining attack almost twice as strong as the Black Drain spell. A fun note about the Drain Touch attack is that it's the only HP-draining attack that does not invert effects on an Undead target. If you fail to kill the Mindflayer in an adequate manner, you can either seek out another Mindflayer in the Interdimensional Rift or confront a The Damned in the Island Shrine.

Hellwind Push the button to leave this place. Take the airshupmarine to Bal Castle and enter the basement, where Objet d'Art roam the place. Have a Necromancer cast Level 5 Death or a boosted Thundaga spell to kill one or all living statues. You just learned Hellwind! It's Air-elemental (boost with Magus Rod or Air Knife) and sets Petrify on whatever is strange enough to both survive the damage onslaught and is vulnerable to Petrify. Behemoth Kings or something, whatever. You could also choose to hunt down a Stingray for Hellwind.

Note: there are five Dark Arts that combine elemental damage with the chance of a status ailment being set. The elemental damage is unblockable, but the status ailment isn't. The status ailment is set when the target is vulnerable to the ailment and when a random number between 0 and 99 is smaller than the target's Magic Evasion%. So versus a target with 75% Magic Evasion, Hellwind and its kin will inflict their status ailment 25% of the time.

Evil Mist Only a short walk to the north of Castle Bal lies Quelb. Pass it up and enter Drakenvale to the north. In the caves you can find a Zombie Dragon. Kill it with a Phoenix Down of Hellwind spell and you'll learn Evil Mist, the Poison- elemental version of Hellwind that, gasp thrice, sets Poison to whatever it doesn't slay outright. Nothing worth caring about is specifically weak to Poison, but it's a fun spell to use regardless. Evil Mist can also be learned from the Unknown (blob) from the Great Sea Trench.

Dark Flare Hey, one of the two 'ultimate' Dark Arts! Go to Kuza Castle and heal up. Make sure you got no problem dealing with either Shield Dragons nor Exdeath's Souls. The latter is the one we're hunting. If you run into one, remember it has 20000 HP and that you'll want to get the final blow for your Necromancer. Hellwind works wonders. Dark Flare pierces Magic Defense and is non-elemental; not as powerful as boosted elemental attacks but a bit more powerful than non-boosted elemental attacks. If you have Bahamut blow up the place, it's more powerful than Dark Flare but a bit more costly on your MP. You won't see much use for Dark Flare in practice unless you want to clear the place of Crystelles or something.

Dark Haze Where did you park your Black Chocobo? I always leave mine near Phantom Village. Anyway, go seek it out and travel to the forest near North Mountain and the Phoenix Tower. Dismount your Black Chocobo and enter the Phoenix Tower. Scout around for a Lemure and kill it with some Hellwind to learn Dark Haze. Dark Haze deals no damage, but is simple a blockable spell that sets both Confuse and Old. Exorays from the Sealed Temple can also teach you Dark Haze.

Meltdown In that very same Phoenix Tower, you get to encounter Liquid Flame randomly when you search the walls for stairs going up. If you encounter one, kill it with some repetitive Evil Mist and Hellwind spells to learn Meltdown, the Fire-elemental one. It's ST only, though, which makes it inferior to Hellwind. It may set... Sap. Honestly? You could also learn Meltdown from Claret Dragon, though nobody will want to.

We still got four more attacks; Deep Freeze (ST Ice-elemental attacks that sets Stop), Chaos Drive (MT Lightning-elemental attack that sets Paralyze), Curse which sets all kinds of status ailments to a single target and Doomsday, the ultimate Dark Art. All four spells can only be learned in the Sealed Temple, so now it's time to get those Dark Arts to you quickly.

You're on the Overworld Map presumably, so it's time to get back to the Sealed Temple and kick Omega Mk. II technological teeth in and follow that succes up with Neo Shinryu's destruction. South of the forest where the Phantom Village is located, you'll see the trench. You'll automatically enter the strange place when you submarine your way down. The NPC that initially told you about the Necromancer Job is still there, randomly spewing out hints on the monsters that can teach you Dark Arts.

You need to press the skull button to get to the other plane, location or dimension, whereever it is you're going. When you've done so, you can enter the Sealed Temple to the left.

I'm going to give you real quick directions to the Hall of Tranquility, from where you can start your mission to kill the last two baddies of the game.

- From the start of the Sealed Temple, walk south and enter the middle doors, the ones you had to unlock earlier. - In the Arena, stick to the outer wall until you reach the middle chamber where you fought the Grand Aevis. Go up and follow the path until you reach the stairs going down, and follow them into the Heart of Ronka's Treasure Room. If you meet any Assassins along the way, you can learn Deep Freeze from them if a Necromancer kills them. If you meet any Mini Satanas, they can teach you Chaos Drive. - In the Treasure Room, go south 'til you reach the first split, then walk to the left, then south again to reach the Heart of Ronka, B1. If you meet any Exoray, your Necromancer can learn Dark Haze from them. - Walk to the south until you reach the chest puzzle. Put the heavy stone in the bottom-left chest and enter the door that opens. Follow the path into B2. - Walk a bit south and to the left, past the rotating chain lift. You see the long staircase; find the entrance and descend the staircase down into the Abyssal Falls B1. - Go down 'til you reach B2. - In B2, walk to the left until you find the waterfall that blocks your path. Make sure you can Dash out of battle, then push the skull button and run past the waterfall while it's disabled. You can then continue into the Hall of Tranquility. - The teleport zone below the NPC will take you to the Lethe Court. In the first room, you have a 35% chance of finding an Ironclad, which will teach you Curse when you kill it with a Necromancer. The rare encounter is Hades, which will teach you the most powerful Dark Art, Doomsday.

Deep Freeze is an ST Ice-elemental attack that may set Stop and Chaos Drive is an MT Lightning-elemental attack that may set Paralyze. Curse may set any one of the following status ailments: Toad, Mini, Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Confuse, Berserk, Silence or HP Leak. Since it picks one prior to checking for status immunities, it's completely useless. Doomsday is a very powerful attack, but it does not pierce Magic Defense like Dark Flare does and is often less powerful than Dark Flare, let alone boosted elemental spells.

When you're done, get back to the Hall of Tranquility and Cottage up, since we're going dumpster-diving into Omega Mk. II's lair. Enter the pyramid to the left. You'll find yourself in the Incubi's Path. Oh man, why can't we ever find ourselves in, I dunno, the Chocolate Cake Path?
