<a id="s4-56-2"></a>

### 4.56.2. The Undeathables; Neo Shinryu

Opponents: Shield Dragon (#86), Blue Dragon (#132), Red Dragon (#133), Yellow Dragon (#134), Great Dragon (#212), Dragon Aevis (#215), Crystal Dragon (#222), Claret Dragon (#240), Neo Shinryu (#322)

Container contents: Ash x2, Blastshot, Blitzshot x2, Elixir x2, Flame Scroll x2, Lightning Scroll, Maximillian, Phoenix Down, Ribbon, Ultima Weapon

Miscellaneous items: Artemis Bow (rare Dragon Aevis steal), Dragon Lance (rare Crystal Dragon steal)

Blue magic: Level 3 Flare, Flame Thrower

Dark Arts: Meltdown

We can't stop here. This is dragon country.

Entryway: 35 % Red Dragon, Yellow Dragon, Blue Dragon 35 % Great Dragon, Dragon Aevis 23 % Shield Dragon x2 6 % Crystal Dragon

You should be familiar with all enemies here. All enemies here with the exception of Great Dragon and Dragon Aevis have the Dragon nature, so Dragon Lances, Apollo's Harp and Dragon Cannon (Blitzshot + Dragon Fang) inflict a lot of damage. Shield Dragons can be problematic. !Rapid Fire with one or more Dragon Lances will help dispatch them quickly. Crystal Dragons are best dispatched with Death Potions. Flame Rings can help you throughout the dungeon; Red Dragon's Atomic Ray, Blue Dragon's Frost, Great Dragon's Blaze and Claret Dragon's Flame Thrower are all absorbed or negated.

Make sure to have Float set, we'll have to cross some lava before we're done here. Having mastered a Geomancer on a single character and using him or her as a Freelancer or Mime will also do the trick. Actually using a Geomancer will have such negative impact in-battle you're better off just soaking up the lava.

First off, let's go up a bit and then continue to the right. Pass the skull button for now, and go up and to the right to reach a chest containing an Elixir! Now, it's time to raid the Treasure Room before we push on towards Neo Shinryu. The Treasure Room is below us. Push the skeleton button you passed a few seconds ago to fall to the floor below.

Treasure Room 35 % Red Dragon, Yellow Dragon, Blue Dragon 35 % Shield Dragon x2 23 % Crystal Dragon 6 % Claret Dragon

You fall one a long stretch of stone. If you go to the left, you'll wind up in a place where you can ascend to the Entryway, but we just got here! Enter the lava lake by going right and finding the stairs leading into the molten rock. In the middle is a large platform with ten chests waiting for you. In it (from top-left to bottom right): a Flame Scroll, a Lightning Scroll, a Maximillian, some Ash, another Flame Scroll, a Phoenix Down, a Blitzshot, an Elixir, a Blastshot and some more Ash.

The Maximillian is mostly a better Genji Armor, as it gives more Defense and Magic Defense. It doesn't protect against any status ailments like the Genji Armor does, though.

Return to the thin stretch of rock you landed on, and go counter-clockwise this time around. When you can leave this place do so, since there's nothing more to be found here.

When you return to the Entryway, you'll find another skeleton button on this very rock island. Push it to connect a small chest-carrying island to a more accessible location. Leave this island by entering the lava and go to the right, where you can eventually (a bit up) find a staircase up the rock formation to the right. Find the chest to the bottom (Blitzshot) and simply backtrack, ignoring the island with the skeleton button and sticking to the outer wall. You'll pass that closed chest. When you can leave the lava at the far left, do so. You should recognize this location, you've been here before. To the south-east, the chest is waiting for you. It's a Ribbon!

We've taken all the treasure here. Remember where you just got out of the lava? Get back in there and go back to the far right, sticking to the outer wall. When at the far right you can get out of the lava, don't do so. Pass the staircase and go further north, where you can find an entrance into Shinryu's Roost.

Shinryu's Roost 35 % Red Dragon, Yellow Dragon, Blue Dragon 42 % Claret Dragon 23 % Crystal Dragon, Dragon Aevis

It's unlikely you'll fight many battles here, since all you'll have to do here is walk straight on 'til you reach the CHEST. You should prepare for the CHEST, since its contents may surprise you. Or not, since there's a Neo Shinryu in there and now you know that.

**Level:** 97 · **Status:** Invulnerable (Always) · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Mute, Mighty Guard, Almagest, Blaze, Breath

(Neo Shinryu) (Attacks, always Invulnerable) Wing, Earthquake, Ice Storm, Lightning, Maelstrom, Poison Breath, Tidal Wave, Zombie Breath

**Level:** 97, HP: 65000, MP: 60000 · **Defense:** 100, Magic Defense: 100 · **Evasion:** 20%, Magic Evasion: 120% · **Steal:** Elixir (rare) · **Absorbs:** Holy · **Creature:** Dragon, Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** Darkness, Silence, Slow · **Attacks:** Meteor, Doom, Giga Flare, White Hole, Zombie Powder, (Fake Image)

Neo Shinryu (Counter-attacks, toggles Invulnerable)

Neo Shinryu doesn't kiss nice. He's a real bad-ass kind of dragon. He goes from 0 to murder in under 8 seconds. If your having a really shitty day, it's this thing's fault somehow. Don't fight him. This is HIS game, and the only way to win is not to play. Or play really well I suppose, that also works. But he's way difficult, you should know that. He's the mostest difficult. This dragon makes the Dalai Lama say very bad words.

Okay, here's the thing. Neo Shinryu has a lot of attacks. A lot of them will kill you. By healing and reviving alone, you can't outlast him and still deal sufficient damage. So the defensive strategy doesn't work. At the same time, Neo Shinryu has this shtick where he randomly cancels out your attacks. In addition, he has three dummy targets, which will randomly absorb your randomly targetted !Rapid Fire and Meteor attacks (among others). So the offensive strategy also doesn't work. What does work? The super-defensive and the ultra- offensive strategy! More on that after the break.

First I want to talk about Neo Shinryu's random negation of your attacks. This is what will happen. First off, Neo Shinryu has three dummy targets; we've seen this douchebaggery before with Enuo, among others. It severly cripples your chances with !Rapid Fire to the point where !Attack has a higher average damage output due to all the missing !Rapid Fire will do. This also means that the Meteor spell, !Released monsters and other random-target attacks will have a 75% chance of striking a dummy target.

Second, Neo Shinryu itself will randomly troll you out of well-deserved damage output. Here's how that happens. Forget about two of the dummy targets, they're not important now. There are two Neo Shinryu enemies. One is the one in charge of attacking every round; this one is immune to damage, always, so it's essentially a third dummy target that also attacks. It's invulnerable like Necrophobe when surrounded by his Barriers, or like an invisible dummy target. Second, there's the Neo Shinryu that is in charge of counters; this one toggles its invulnerability states every turn, and it moves like greased lightning. You won't be able to keep up or track his turns; to your inferior human naked eye, you'll never know if this Neo Shinryu is vulnerable to damage or not until you try. Neo obviously does not take turns when a character has just cast Quick, so during those two turns Neo Shinryu is either vulnerable to both attacks or immune to both attacks. When wielding two weapons, either both strike a vulnerable target or neither; this goes for !Jump with two weapons as well.

So, since the vulnerable part of Neo Shinryu toggles its invulnerability at every turn, it can be said to have a 50% chance of letting your attacks inflict damage. A random-target attack must face its three dummy targets and thus has only a 12.5% chance of inflicting damage. When Neo Shinry is vulnerable, it has a 25% chance of connecting, but the player won't have this information until it first sees damage appear. If you fight Neo Shinryu a couple of times in a row like yours truly did, you'll get a knack for the flow of this battle; you see an attack deal no damage, you wait a bit and then unleash hell for a great chance of finding Neo Shinryu vulnerable.

So in conclusion, there are four targets, only one can ever be damaged and this target toggles its invulnerability every turn. Cute!

Neo Shinryu, having set up these defensive perimeters, will do the following. It'll start off with Mighty Guard, which cuts down any hits you DO land by 50%. A Judgment Staff or Dispel spell is needed to counter. Then, the following AI script will loop:

- Maelstrom - 33% chance of either Ice Storm, Ice Storm or Blaze - Zombie Breath - 33% chance of either Earthquake, Earthquake or Lightning - No Interrupt: Attack Attack - 33% chance of either Poison Breath, Poison Breath or Breath Wing - Curse - 33% chance of either Tidal Wave, Tidal Wave or Almagest (loop)

When you bring Neo Shinryu down to 15000 HP or less, it'll cast Mute and switch to physical attacks only.

- No Interrupt: 33% chance of either Attack, Attack or !Critical Attack 33% chance of either Attack, Attack or !Critical Attack - No Interrupt: 33% chance of either Attack, !Critical Attack or Nothing 33% chance of either Attack, !Critical Attack or Nothing 33% chance of either Attack, !Critical Attack or Nothing (loop)

Note that all of these attacks are executed by the continuously invulnerable Neo Shinryu. The Neo Shinryu you hurt will never attack, just toggle its invulnerability and employ counter-attacks. When struck by !Rapid Fire, it may counter a 33% chance of either Zombie Powder, Doom or nothing. Since !Rapid Fire is most inaccurate already and there's no room for Angel Rings in our set-up, that means !Rapid Fire is pretty much the worst attack to use versus Neo Shinryu ever. Any other damaging move may provoke a 33% shot at White Hole, but with Ribbons in place it will have no effect.

When you kill Neo Shinryu, it'll have two last aces up its sleeve; Giga Flare and Meteor. It'll cast both, in that order, as a final counter-attack. These attacks are not as strong as most of NS' attacks, but should still be in the back of your mind when you're approaching Neo Shinryu's demise. Giga Flare deals about 1500 damage to a non-Shelled party.

It all looks fairly managable, but until you've seen the terrifying competence and speed that accompany these attacks, the dread will start. Luckily for you, we at Djibriel Enterpresis have constructed not one but two strategies to employ. They've done studies, you know. 15% of the time, they work EVERY time. We guarantee it.

Dragoons Execute Airborne Tactics Hopefully (or D.E.A.T.H.):

Neo Shinryu is a Dragon. The 'strategy' here is to set up four characters with Dual-Wield and two Dragon Lances, Hermes Sandals, !Jump and !Time 6. You cast Quick, then launch your terrified combatants into the air. Due to Quick, you won't have to suffer ATB increase while your character plunges screaming towards his or her doom. There's a 50% chance that landing will deal a lot of damage. If so, you can !Jump again. If not, your next !Jump will fail as well, so you might as well cast Hastega, heal or revive if necessary. Cue the next character! You can have one character not use Quick so he or she is in the air when Giga Flare/Meteor appears. Also note this front-loaded team can use Dispel by equipping the Judgment Staff mid-battle.

This is a high-risk, high-reward strategy, and likely the cause of the infuriating "Lolz Neo Shinryu is 2 Ezy" shout-outs across the internet. Note that this strategy requires a lot of Dragon Lances and characters knowing !Time 6, !Jump and Dual-Wield, which is not at all the case for everybody. In addition, you have straw for defenses here, so Neo Shinryu will rip you some interesting new holes when he gets the chance. He'll get those chances a lot.

Chemists Outlast Wyrm's Endless Rampage (or C.O.W.E.R.):

The polar opposite of the strategy listed above, this turtle-like defensive strategy is almost sure to work and demands much more reasonable parameters. The basic idea is to postpone offense until you're so hopped up on buffs that you can casually trade blows with Neo Shinryu. Since his arsenal is so incredibly diverse, that requires a lot of buffs. Enter with Coral Rings and Ribbons. The Force Shield will be a tremendous benefit; have the character most adept at buffing (ideally a !Time/!Mix Freelancer) equip it. Ice Shields for the others, they will nullify Ice Storm and Blaze. Since Defense and Magic Defense mean almost nothing in this fight, the Mirage Vest is a great equip.

!Blue and !Time are just incredibly useful here, but !Mix is without a doubt the most important skillset. !Blue is only used for White Wind and Mighty Guard. !Time is used for Quick, Hastega and, in a pinch, Float. !Mix is used for these things:

Potion + Ether X-Potion Potion + Phoenix Down Resurrection Ether + Dragon Fang Dragon Shielding Elixir + Dragon Fang Goliath Tonic Maiden's Kiss + Dragon Fang Dragon Kiss

Right. From the get-go, Ribbons are in place to protect you from White Hole (a counter) and most everything that Curse has to offer. With Ice Shields and Coral Rings, you've also taken care of Ice Storm, Blaze and Tidal Wave. Dragon Shielding helps to absorb Blaze and Lightning. Goliath Tonic helps survive damage from Zombie Breath, Breath Wing and Almagest. Dragon Kiss gives immunity to Maelstrom.

Try to keep Mighty Guard up at all times; it reduces damage by a lot and its Float prevents a Game Over from Earthquake. Second, Goliath Tonic is top priority. The doubled HP will stay with you even if you fall, which you will do a lot. Dragon Shielding and Dragon Kiss protect you against 2 out of 8 turns, these being the Ice Storm/Blaze turn and the Mealstrom turn. Note that your Force Shield character doesn't need Dragon Shielding.

Reviving (and curing Zombie) should always take priority over healing, healing should always take priority over buffing. You will gradually gain more and more turns during which Neo Shinryu performs an attack you can just ignore. Make no mistake, you will die all the time. But you can always revive with full HP and MP, and those that have both !Time and !Mix can revive two characters in one turn. Your Force Shield character can only die from physical attacks. All buffs except for Mighty Guard will remain with the character even when he or she dies.

Eventually, you will have a party with massive HP, Shelled across the board. Only physical attacks, Breath Wing, Tidal Wave and Almagest will still leave a mark, but they can be healed with White Wind. Stray physicals may still kill a character even with Protect and Goliath Tonic active, but they're quickly revived. It is now time for offense!

It will be a slow process, since you really only have !Attack to work with. Give Apollo's Harp to a Quick caster; Dragon Lances work okay even without !Jump. Since Neo Shinryu has 100 Defense, anything that doesn't automatically score a Defense-ignoring Critical Hit will not leave a mark. 20% Evasion may randomly be a hindrance for Dragon Lance wielders. Again, the Judgment Staff can be used to remove Mighty Guard from Neo Shinryu.

When all is said and done and Neo Shinryu dies an unimpressive working class death, an Ultima Weapon is yours! It's the BEST weapon. It's even a normal Sword, so Blue Mages, Mystic Knights and Cannoneers can use it as well. It's a sword with the power of destruction. Contrast this to the Derrida Weapon, which only has the power of deconstruction! What a blade!
