<a id="s4-56-1"></a>

### 4.56.1. The Undeathables; Omega Mk. II

Opponents: Mecha Head (#150), Necromancer (#223), Mini Satana (#229), Medusa (#238), Dinozombie (#239), Omega Mk. II

Container contents: Ash x2, Blitzshot x2, Dark Matter x2, Demon's Rod, Elixir, Hero Cocktail, Holy Water

Miscellaneous items: Force Shield (guaranteed Omega Mk. II drop)

Blue spells: Flame Thrower, Missile

Dark Arts: Chaos Drive

Time for some Rage against the Machine.

Tomb of Memory - Incubi's Path: 35 % Dinozombie, Mecha Head 35 % Medusa, Mini Satana 23 % Medusa x2 6 % Dinozombie, Necromancer

This is a very simple stroll through the pyramid park. By that I mean that the directions are easy. Patrolling around the scene are... Omegas. There is no narrative explanation for this. Omega is supposed to be a one of a kind creature. Maybe all of these are cheap duplicates, made in Taiwan and all that. They're equally effecive as the real deal though.

I highly suggest destroying all the Omega machines prior to exploring the rest of the cavern. For detailed explanation, try [OMEGA-LINK], even though you probably know how to handle him. You kill one of these by setting Thundaga Spellblade effects to a Dual-Wield !Rapid Fire character. Hermes Sandals on that guy or girl help out. Don't attack him in the meantime, he'll just counter. Don't forget to equip a Ribbon on your !Rapid Fire cannon, else Delta Attack or Blaster may seriously hamper your plans for Omega domination.

Every Omega gives you 100 ABP, and you only need a single specialized character to take out Omega within two rounds. Something to think about. Do note that when you try to level up Oracles or something, they won't be able to equip Ribbons and may fall to status ailment attacks.

There are six Omega machines running around here, the lot of which contributes a total of 600 ABP and 300000 Gil unto your party.

In the meantime, you may encounter monsters randomly as well, and Medusa enemies are new. They are quite frail for Sealed Temple monsters, standing at a mere 7500 HP. They use Entice a lot, which sets Confuse. Earlier Lamia-type enemies only targeted male characters with the move, but these girls appreciate beauty in all its forms. They counter damage with a 1/3 chance at Evil Eye, which may set Petrify on those characters not equipped with a Ribbon.

Rainbow Dresses are good in this place, since Ribbons don't protect against Confuse but Rainbow Dresses do.

When you've cleared the floor of Omega copies, it's time for treasure! Start at the entrance and see the hidden passage to your left. It contains Ash. Return to the entrance. Go up and stick to the right wall to come across another hidden passage which leads you to a chest containing an Elixir. Return to the main chamber. Ignore the exit for now and continue to find the chest with a Demon's Rod. It's a useless piece of crap that randomly casts Death but doesn't boost any elements.

Now, you see the exit to your right. Go there!

Tomb of Memory - Decedent's Path: 35 % Necromancer, Archeosaur 35 % Mini Satana x2 23 % Medusa, Lamia Queen x2 6 % Dinozombie

Right at the start, go all the way up to find a button. Push it to remove the magical barrier that kept you from visiting Neo Shinryu. But first things first; bionic bros before dragon hoes is what I always say. Get back to the entrance. You see a hidden passage to your right, but don't go there; there's just a pit that'll take you to the River of Souls, and nobody goes there anymore. Go to the left to find another button you can pass up; it'll create a sandstream that sweeps you back to the main chamber of the Incubi's Path. The button in the far right will open up a passage in the Incubi's Path, so push it, then push the button you just passed up, to the left. Find the newly opened door, then enter.

Tomb of Memory - Iniquity's Path: 35 % Dinozombie, Medusa 35 % Dinozombie 23 % Medusa, Mini Satana 6 % Medusa x3

A lot of hidden passages here. Find the one to the bottom-right, then follow it to come across a chest containing some Dark Matter. Follow it further for some useless rooms and a Blitzshot chest. Return to the start of the hidden passage. Now, go to the left where you previously went right to find a chest with a Hero Cocktail (watch out for the hole!) go into the hidden passage to the left of the chest to reach another chest with some Dark Matter. You have now raided this floor fully, so drop down any hole you please. Let's pick one right here.

Tomb of Memory - Throne Room: 35 % Medusa, Necromancer x2 35 % Dinozombie 23 % Medusa x3 6 % Dinozombie

This is the weirdest Throne Room I've ever seen, mostly because there is no throne. You find yourself near a chest containing some more Ash. Go north for a new chest featuring a Blitzshot. The top button will open up a door so you can continue. Also press the other one. Slide down the tiny slippery slope and continue to the right; do ignore the second slippery slope as you'll be stuck and will have to walk back. To the bottom-right, there is a chest containing a Holy Water. Up, there's a door you opened with that other button just now which takes you to another button. This one opens up the door in the middle, which leads to... Omega Mk. II.

**Level:** 97, HP: 65000, MP: 60000 · **Defense:** 200, Magic Defense: 200 · **Evasion:** 100%, Magic Evasion: 100% · **Steal:** Elixir (rare) · **Win:** Force Shield (always) · **Absorbs:** (Fire, Ice, Lightning), Poison, Holy, Earth, Wind, Water · **Weakness:** (Fire, Ice, Lightning) · **Status:** (Always) Reflect, Shell · **Creature:** Heavy · **Vulnerable to:** Slow, Stop

Omega Mk. II Attacks:

When you took Omega down, maybe somebody somewhere was looking at you. We are not alone. Omega was a perfect killing machine, with only two weakness. An emotional weakness to Romeo's Ballad, but you can't change a soul. Then there was Thundaga Spellblade !Rapid Fire, which functions like a Five Point Palm Exploding Heart Technique. And this is what was upgraded.

Omega Mk. II has some higher stats than its prototype, most notably higher HP. Its AI script is mostly identical, with the exception of his new software which allows it to respond to !Rapid Fire.

- First turn only: Barrier Change - 33% chance of either Atomic Ray, Delta Attack or Blaster - Wave Cannon - 33% chance of either Rainbow Wind, Flame Thrower or Atomic Ray - Wave Cannon - No interrupt: 33% chance of either Delta Attack, Blaster or Wave Cannon 33% chance of either Maelstrom, Earthquake or Rainbow Wind - Search (save target until end next turn) - 33% chance of either Rainbow Wind, Flame Thrower or Atomic Ray (on Search target) - Wave Cannon (loop)

Counterattack to Fire, Ice or Lightning element when its currently weak against it: - No interrupt: Barrier Change (change to either Fire, Ice or Lightning weakness)

Counterattack to !Rapid Fire: - 33% chance of (Full HP heal), Encircle or nothing (since !Rapid Fire hits multiple times but may only provoke two counters at most, this counter is executed twice)

Counterattack to all HP damage: - No interrupt: Target: Random target 33% chance of either Rocket Punch, Rocket Punch or Mustard Bomb 33% chance of either Rocket Punch, Rocket Punch or Encircle

So he functions like Omega, but when you hit it with an elemental attack that strikes its weakness, it changes form into any of its three forms. It's either weak to Fire, Ice or Lightning. When !Rapid Fire is used and it's not fatal, Omega Mk. II may either respond with Encircle (bad) or a nameless full HP restorative move. I guess it has something to do with nanobots, I dunno.

So the mission here is to set up either Firaga, Blizzaga or Thundaga spellblade on a Dual-Wield character. That takes at least two turns, and Omega Mk. II is wicked fast. Second, we need to know which element we want and make sure we don't provoke a Barrier Change before the properly applied elemental is unloaded upon Omega Mk. II's sorry ass.

Reflect Rings across the team protect against Delta Attack, Atomic Ray and Search. In addition, you can cast Libra on one of your characters to find out Omega Mk. II's current elemental weakness. Flame Rings on everbody is possibly an ever better option since you absorb Atomic Ray and Flamethrower and you can still cast Curaga and Mighty Guard, but you'll have to have !Scan if you want to discover how to hurt Omega Mk. II since you can't target Omega Mk. II with Scan spells.

With either Flame Rings or Reflect Rings combined with Ribbons and Float, all that can really hurt you is Wave Cannon. As long as you use nothing but !Rapid Fire, the regular counters won't appear. With at least two characters with either Curaga or White Wind (Curaga is not an option with Reflect Rings), you can simply outlast Omega Mk. II's attacks. If you can check its elemental weakness, apply the relevant one and let loose with !Rapid Fire. If not, you can just try 'til you get it right. It's possible that Omega Mk. II survives the first !Rapid Fire, but if it's of the proper element the Barrier Change counter will take precedence over the Encircle/full heal counter. You can then attack it with the proper !Rapid Fire a second time, thus ending Omega Mk. II.

Flame Rings with !Scan is really the best. If you bring Omega Mk. II to near death with a good !Rapid Fire, then heal it a bit with a wrong !Rapid Fire it may respond with a full heal or Encircle, which could remove your !Rapid Fire character from the fight. If you go in with Reflect Rings, Flame Thower plus Wave Cannon may kill a character, also bad news.

iOS/Android: !Scan don't work! It's Reflect + Libra for you, since that does work.

You get a Force Shield out of the deal. It's got superior Defense and nullifies all elemental attacks, which is just grand. No, really, it's super-awesome. Imagine nullifying Holy, Almagest, Firaga and all that. I highly suggest you use it if you have any Shieldbearers in your party; it's a good combo with the Mirage Vest. The downside of the Force Shield is its lack of Evasion; during a random encounter, you're unlikely to absorb more than a single physical hit on any character, and the Mirage Vest will allow you to dodge it.
