<a id="s4-6-1"></a>

### 4.6.1. North Mountain

Opponents: Rock Slug (#21), Gaelicat (#22), Cockatrice (#23), Headstone (#24), Magissa (#246), Forza (#247)

Container contents: Gold Needle, Phoenix Down

Miscellaneous items: Power Drink (guaranteed Forza drop), Silver Specs (common Headstone steal), Whip (guaranteed Magissa drop)

Spells: Aero, Flash

Slope leading into first cave, second slope: 35 % Rock Slug, Rock Slug 35 % Gaelicat 23 % Rock Slug, Rock Slug, Gaelicat 6 % Gaelicat, Gaelicat, Gaelicat

1st cave and 2nd cave: 35 % Rock Slug, Rock Slug, Gaelicat 35 % Gaelicat, Gaelicat, Gaelicat 23 % Headstone, Headstone, Rock Slug, Rock Slug 6 % Rock Slug, Rock Slug

3rd slope (Purple flowers): 35 % Cockatrice, Rock Slug, Rock Slug 35 % Headstone, Headstone, Rock Slug, Rock Slug 23 % Cockatrice 6 % Cockatrice, Cockatrice

4th slope (Magissa location): 35 % Cockatrice 35 % Gaelicat, Gaelicat, Gaelicat 23 % Gaelicat 6 % Gaelicat

Summit (Wind Drake location): 35 % Cockatrice 35 % Cockatrice, Cockatrice 23 % Headstone, Headstone, Headstone, Headstone, Headstone 6 % Headstone, Headstone, Rock Slug, Rock Slug

Rock Slugs are boring. They do battle, and they're weak to Fire-elemental attacks, including and solely limited to your Black Fire spells.

Gaelicats are the most prolific enemies on the mountain, and by their very nature of being freaky sentient cats who try to employ leaves as primitive wings, they are Floating, which is still of no concern to you. They may evade your physical attacks, so if you have unblockable attacks to favor, favor them. Their Special is called !Cat Scratch and is essentially the same attack as the most powerful physical attack FF VI's Wild Boy Gau was able to perform. It's much weaker here, though.

Cockatrices are the most dangerous enemies here, since they have a 33% chance every turn to use (alongside Attack and !Dive which is merely a stronger version of their physical attack) Beak. Beak sets the Petrify status ailment, which renders the target unable to take action, unable to be targeted by any 'attack' that doesn't remove the Petrify effect, and is marked as 'defeated', which means that the character in question won't obtain ABP or Experience when he exits the battle Petrified, and that a team full of Petrified characters will get you a Game Over. Cure Petrified characters with a Gold Needle as soon as you can. You can steal them from the Cockatrices themselves, too.

Headstone are the most interesting enemies to face around here as they'll be nice to you if you know how to work them. First off, they have common Silver Specs on them. Silver Specs share the Leather Shoes its + 1 Defense and + 1 Magic Defense and protects against the Darkness status to boot. Why Leather Shoes are always favored by selecting Optimum is a mystery as they are flat-out inferior to the Silver Specs. Headstone aren't very dangerous so make sure to Steal Silver Specs whenever Headstone and Thieves meet (obviously, four is plenty). The other notable feature of Headstone is the fact it often tries to use Flash while not having the MP to do so. Luckily, feeding them an Ether will give them the MP to use Flash so your Blue Mage(s) can learn it. Know that the Learning character needs to be affected by the spell in order to learn it, so if you equip him with Silver Specs he won't be able to learn the attack. Oh yeah, and they nullify Fire-, Ice- and Wind-elemental attacks, so Thunder is the way to go.

If you have a Thief, there's no reason to skip on Stealing 4 Silver Specs at this point of the game, and if you have a character who can learn Blue Magic, be sure to use an Ether on one of the Headstones to have it cast Flash, as it's a truly useful attack to be able to perform. Make sure that your character in question isn't wearing the Silver Specs you stole, as he or she won't be able to learn the spell if it has no effect on the character with Learning set.

This is a very simple and straightforward path leading up, alternating through caves and slopes. The first room contains two chests containing a Phoenix Down and a Gold Needle. Head south first for the Phoenix Down, then follow the other path for the Gold Needle and the exit. After a slope and another cave you'll wind up on a slope filled with purple plants which we have been warned about by Carwen NPC; these little guys are poisonous. Indeed, stepping on them will set the Poison status ailment on every character in your party, so avoid them at all costs. If you take a wrong turn immediately heal up with your White caster's Poisona spell. This is where those blasted Cockatrices start to show up, by the way, so keep your eye out for Petrification.

You now pass through a cave with a Save Point. Use it, there's something exciting about to happen. On the next slope, Lenna will spot her father's Mythril Helmet lying on the ground and will be immediately shot by a poisoned arrow when she tries to pick it up.
