<a id="s4-6-2"></a>

### 4.6.2. The battle with Magissa

Meet Magissa, a powerful sorceress of some sort who came looking for the Wind Drake to kill it and sell its horn, together with her freakish mutant 'husband'. She blocks your path by letting a part of the mountain crash down, but this isn't enough to stop Faris. She finds a way there and soon enough you'll be facing the magical mistress herself.

Oh! Look at that outfit!

**Level:** 8, HP: 650, MP: 200 · **Defense:** 0, Magic Defense: 0 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Win:** Whip · **Creature:** Humanoid · **Special Technique:** !Critical Attack · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Silence, Stop, Slow · **Attacks:** !Critical Attack, Thunder, Drain, Fire, Blizzard, Aero, Regen

Magissa

**Level:** 8, HP: 850, MP: 100 · **Defense:** 3, Magic Defense: 5 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Potion (common) · **Win:** Power Drink (always) · **Status:** Float · **Creature:** Heavy, Humanoid · **Special Technique:** !Tackle · **Special Technique Effect:** Attack x 1.5 · **Vulnerable to:** Poison, Darkness, Old, Sleep, Paralyze, Confuse, Berserk, · **Attacks:** Battle, !Tackle

Forza Silence, Stop, Slow

Magissa attacks you with a specific set of spells, which go like this:

**st turn:** 33 % each: Fire, Ice, Thunder · **nd turn:** 33 % each: Aero, !Critical Attack, Drain

When Magissa has 300 Hit Points left or less, her first action will consist out of calling her hubby. I'm not sure of a seven-foot elemental golem or whatever the hell Forza is counts as a hubby, but surely any woman who takes a liking to whips can be counted on to spend her life with some guy who listens to her every command so even if Forza is humanoid, he's still dead on the inside. At any rate, as soon as Forza has entered the battlefield Magissa's first action is casting Regen on him. Afterwards, she'll continue with her normal spell AI script.

Note that it is entirely possible to not see Forza at all if you manage to shave off Magissa's remaining 300 HP before she is able to take a turn, in which case you'll be screwed out of Forza's admittedly unimportant 100 % drop, as well as his Bestiary entry.

Forza just uses physical attacks, either 66 % Attack or 33 % !Tackle, which is 150 % times as strong. His physical attacks are quite powerful, especially !Tackle can hurt. Thieves and Monks had better beware.

How to take care of them? Magissa falls to the Silence status ailment, so any White Mage or other character with the level 2 White command may cast it on her to stop all of her spells. Forza is vulnerable to Sleep, so Black Mages or level 2 Black casters may utilize that. The Blue spell Flash works on both targets, and while Magissa won't suffer from it much in her magic-based strategy the blinded Forza will suddenly be hitting a lot less effectively when he grumpily wakes up from the you-induced Sleep status. A Protect spell on those in the Front Row is also not a bad idea, especially the frail Thieves can benefit.

After the vicious beauty and the beast have been dispatched, you'll obtain up to two future-oriented items: a Whip from Magissa and provided Forza made a showing, a Power Drink. The Power Drink is an item that can be consumed by the !Drink command you'll gain access to later in the game and the Whip is a weapon for the Beastmaster, a Job you'll gain access to later.

The Whip is the strongest weapon you have at this point, and it's made even more powerful by the fact it deals the same amount of damage from the Back Row and the fact it randomly has the additional effect of Paralyzing Magic Beast-type creatures. You could switch a character to the Freelancer Class and equip it right now, but you don't need this weapon at this time and it's certainly not worth the loss of ABP being a Freelancer entails.

Check that menu description of the Whip, a reference to this:

crack that whip give the past the slip step on a crack break your momma's back when a problem comes along you must whip it before the cream sits out too long you must whip it when something's going wrong you must whip it "Whip it" - Devo (1980)

You can look up the music video, but promise me to never look at it with a head full of acid. Note that the Mythril Helmet has been added to your inventory.

Walking on gets you to a cliff where Hiryu, the last Wind Drake of this world is resting. Lenna'll casually throw her life away to heal the Wind Drake, but thankfully the Wind Drake has restorative powers previously not mentioned. Silly Lenna and her silly antics, walking in poisonous flowers like that. Bartz' acrophobia is subject to everybody's hilarity; remember to kill them all when they least expect it

Some trivia here; "Hiryu" was, in the original Japanese game, the species' name while no individual Wind Drake had a name of their own. Hiryu means "flying dragon" in moonspeak.

You automatically take off. This is the Wind Drake modus transporti of this game. The Wind Drake can't land in deserts, the sea, forests, mountains and the handicapped zone. What you can do is fly a circle around Carwen to show everybody the guy who tipped us off was telling the truth. Sure enough, entering Carwen and talking to the guy reveals that he's swimming in narcissistic him-love, but he'll do that even if you didn't flex your Wind Drake so we are not to blame. Walse lies to the south. Engage!
