<a id="s4-7-1"></a>

### 4.7.1. Home sweet home; Castle Tycoon

Container contents: Cottage x 3, Diamond Bell, Elixir x 2, Ether x 2, Hi-Potion, Ashura, Maiden's Kiss, Phoenix Down x 2, Shuriken

Miscellaneous items: Healing Staff

What you say? Advance the plot? Say now Nancy, that's dangerous thinking. We're going to let everybody at Castle Tycoon know that Lenna is okay and that the King is down and out for the moment. The awesome, awesome treasures that lie waiting for you here could in theory have something to do with the fact I want you to go there, but only in theory, as no amount of treasure could every compete with character development! Fly south 'til you see a new town and a castle; this is Walse, and we'll go here in the near future. Head west from Walse by going north over the mountain range. Keep heading west over a desert land mass, then head southwest until you find a gap in the mountains. You're back at the start of the game! Fly in and follow the available path counter- clockwise until you fly over the meteorite. You're done!

As soon as you enter the courtyard but before you enter the castle, I want you to go find two super-hidden treasures. In the east wall lies a hidden passage not even the Find Passages support ability detects. Pass through it to find a hidden room of Castle Tycoon which contains two Cottages, which you can think of as Supertents. Should you try to open these chests for the first time when you have released Lone Wolf (you'll come across Lone Wolf later), you'll find these chests to be empty. Trace back your steps to the courtyard and enter the castle.

Entering the castle will get you a talk with the Chancellor of Castle Tycoon. It seems nowadays' armies are having a tough time coping with all the monsters that for some reason appear in greater numbers than ever. Partly out of a wish to save the world and partly out of a stubborn refusal to officially take over the throne, even for the time being, Lenna does not comply to the Chancellors offer to stay home and rule over Tycoon. The night is an offer she can't refuse, however.

**In the night:** could the bishounen shemale pirate captain Faris Scherwiz really

be a princess? She denies it all, but when you think of it it's really TOO CRAZY NOT TO WORK.

When you wake, step outside and descend the stairs to find a Hi-Potion in one of the grey pots. Cross the great hall of Castle Tycoon and ascend the right wing to find the study, where old teacher hag Jenica mentions Lenna's sister Sarisa, who disappeared at a young age at sea. Oh, the subtle hints! In this room, a plethora of treasures in the pots and crates: a Cottage, an Ether, a Phoenix Down and an Elixir. Leave this place.

When you find yourself in the great hall once more, enter the throne room and enter the right door (to the left, it's just Lenna's featureless room and the room of Alexander Tycoon, which you're not allowed to enter). Ascend the stairs to find six grey pots, containing in various intensity: an Ether, an Elixir, a Phoenix Down and a Maiden's Kiss. Ascend even further to reach the scenery of the opening cutscene; the view sure is pretty up here, ain't it? Now, go back down and go outside.

A guard previously blocking a passageway to the left of the entrance has now moved a tile, giving you the freedom to explore it. You'll wind up in the surprisingly empty Storage room, but your Find Passages support ability detects a hidden passage! Even if you don't have it on you, that switch is too tempting to resist. Flick it and enter the hidden passage you can now enter. Behold, the Chancellor (did he lock himself in for you to find him?).

The Chancellor gives you the Healing Staff, a Staff which casts Cura on the target when you Attack with it. It's a great free way of healing your characters, but if your White Mage doesn't have offensive spells at his or her disposal he or she really does become offensively impotent with this thing, so you should decide if it's for you or not. The remainder of the chests contain sweet-ass weapons including a Diamond Bell, a Shuriken and an Ashura.

The Shuriken can only be used by the !Throw command of the Ninja, so it isn't of any concern at this point of the game. The Diamond Bell is, as its name would apply, a Bell. Bells are odd weapons that randomly deal between 50 % and 100 % of their normally calculated damage, depends on the wielders Magic Power and to a lesser extent the wielders Agility and factors Magic Defense as opposed to Defense, all this while being unblockable and not working when Silence is in effect. End of story: hardly useful, and none of your current Jobs can equip it, but it does deal the same amount of damage from the Back Row making it far superior magical weapons than Rods and Staves.

The weakest katana is the Ashura. Don't let the word 'weakest' give an indication of its current power, however. The Ashura is an incredibly powerful weapon at this stage of the game, which has the current disadvantage of being only useable by Freelancer class characters. Katanas use the 'basic' Sword damage formula, which makes it about twice as strong as the Long Swords from the get-go. To add sugar to the deal, all Katanas have the ability to randomly inflict Critical Hits (which deal double damage and pierce Defense). This particular Katana's CH ratio is 12 %. As much as it pains me to say it, I don't recommend using it as you encounter nothing dangerous enough to need the Ashura, hence the loss in ABP progress isn't worth using this awesome weapon for.

We're done here, but we had a blast. We've made a grand detour through both the Ship Graveyard and Carwen, but we're finally ready. Let's fly to Walse now, it's to the east.
