<a id="s4-8-1"></a>

### 4.8.1. The country of Walse

Opponents: Gatling (#16), Big Horn (#17), Tatou (#18), Bandersnatch (#19), Garula (#20)

Container contents: Silver Specs

Grasslands and forests: 35 % Tatou x2, Gatling 35 % Big Horn x2 23 % Gatling 6 % Bandersnatch

Walse is a thriving town blessed by water so pure, monsters won't come near it. This doesn't go for the creature Garula though, friendly big tusked teddybear that it is. If you descend the stairs to the right of the entrance, into the moat, and enter the house in the south-west corner of the town of Walse, you'll find Silver Specs in the grey pot.

One of the frogs in the pond throws a sweet Muppets reference at you; maybe

this is just a town dude who is under the influence of the Black Toad spell? Before debates start raging, let me assure you that the game proves you don't have to possess a crystal shard to be able to cast magic (else the Magic Shops'd be REALLY, REALLY hard-pressed to find customers).

- **Magic Shop:**
  - Slow                  80 Gil
  - Regen                100 Gil
  - Mute                 320 Gil
  - Haste                320 Gil
  - Chocobo              300 Gil
  - Sylph                350 Gil
  - Remora               250 Gil
- **Speaking of the Magic Shop, they're selling a brand new brand of Magic you are**
  - at this point unable to wield. The first four belong to the Time Mage, the last
  - three to the Summoner. Man, this doesn't bode well for the continued existence
  - of the Water Crystal...at any rate, there's no reason to buy them at this point
  - so don't waste your Gil just yet.

- **Weapon Shop:**
  - Battle Axe           650 Gil
  - Long Sword           480 Gil
  - Dagger               300 Gil
  - The only new feature is the Battle Axe, of which the average damage output is
  - similar to that of the Long Sword on a Freelancer classed character and
  - inferior to one using a Whip. Regardless, you need to switch to the Freelancer
  - class when you want to use it, and it's not particularly grand, so don't.

- **Armor Shop:**
  - Iron Shield          390 Gil
  - Iron Helmet          350 Gil
  - Iron Armor           500 Gil
  - Kenpo Gi             450 Gil
  - Cotton Robe          300 Gil
  - Buy as you see fit. Don't forget that you found a Mythril Helmet back at North
  - mountain so buying a Iron Helmet may be pointless. The Kenpo Gi is your first
  - piece of armor with a stat boost: + 1 on Strength.

- **Item Shop:**
  - Potion                40 Gil
  - Antidote              30 Gil
  - Eye Drops             20 Gil
  - Maiden's Kiss         60 Gil
  - Mallet                50 Gil
  - Gold Needle          150 Gil
  - Phoenix Down        1000 Gil
  - Tent                 250 Gil
- **Make sure to dive into the Item Shop and buy a few Maiden's Kisses. There'll**
  - be Toad status ailments soon. It's a funny thing you can buy kisses as an item
  - to carry with you; it could prove THE solution to that one well-meaning virgin
  - friend everybody seems to have.

There's nothing else to do here, so let's talk to King Walse and have this stupid, stupid using the Water Crystal for the nation's welfare stopped.

...

I'd be like telling Mister President of about every freaking country in the world that using gasoline is a big bad no-no, but whatever.

While there is no reason to walk on the Overworld map now since you can fly between every location you want to visit, I want to point out that the encounters here are identical to those around Carwen with the exception of the lands surrounding the Tower of Walse to the North. Here, Garula appears, the passive and friendly creature that walks in and out of Walse. You can beat him up for free ABP (a single one!), but why not leave him alone?
