<a id="s4-8-4"></a>

### 4.8.4. The fight with Garula

Garula always was a common sight around the Water Tower, being one of the few monsters pure-hearted enough to stand the purified water. It's not this creature's fault that it was the target of manipulation, but we can't stand by and let the Water Crystal be destroyed.

**Level:** 3, HP: 1200, MP: 100 · **Defense:** 7, Magic Defense: 4 · **Evasion:** 0%, Magic Evasion: 0% · **Steal:** Hi-Potion (rare), Potion (common) · **Win:** Hi-Potion · **Creature:** Magic Beast · **Special Technique:** !Rush · **Special Technique Effect:** causes Sap status · **Vulnerable to:** Death, Petrify, Toad, Poison, Darkness, Old, Paralyze, Confuse, · **Attacks:** Battle, !Rush, Toad

Garula Berserk, Silence, Stop, Slow

Garula attacks physically, and he hits hard and fast. He may counter any damage done on him by up to two physical attacks after he has reached 800 HP or less, and his special technique !Rush adds the Sap status as well, which is a bad thing. Garula has four weaknesses you can exploit:

- Being only physical in nature and never using anything else unless it's countering an attack makes it a sitting duck for any character who combines !Guard with the Counter support ability. With this combination, you can't lose since you take 0 damage, then counter-attack every time Garula tries something. - The Whip you won from Magissa may Paralyze the creature, so if you're willing to have a character lose out on 5 ABP you can really cripple Garula. - Flash, the Blue spell you may have learned from the Headstone on North Mountain. Setting Darkness on Garula will make all of his attacks miss 75 % of the time, which is a sweet deal. If you have Flash at your disposal, make sure to utilize it. - Pond's Chorus, the insane new hype spell for every Blue Mage teenager works against Garula. Sure, the creature may cast Toad on itself to remove the status, but that's a turn he could've spent attacking, and it misses on occasion. Physicals from Toads do no damage, but sadly !Rush still inflicts the Sap status. To be extremely mean to baby Garula, cast Silence on him before casting Pond's Chorus; Silence stops the Toad spell from Garula so he'll be stuck as a harmless Toad.

Any combination of the above works like a charm. Remember that Garula is an opponent that is most dangerous when attacked head-on. If you use a Cure spell, and when you stop attacking the tusked terror, the barrage of attacks Garula seems to deliver will suddenly decrease dramatically in number. Take advantage of this. Garula can catch you off-guard, but you shouldn't let that happen. Any character with the Cover support ability works great as meatshield for unexpected Near Death characters, especially when paired with (you guessed it) !Guard or Counter.

To be short, keep the initial damage to a minimum, Steal, cast Flash and Silence, whack him a little, cast Pond's Chorus and go all-out. There's little to worry about if you follow this strategy.

After Garula has been dispatched (you'll learn later that Garula is still alive...are we actually going to KILL a boss one of these days?) the Water Crystal will shatter. Gods, all this work for nothing, that's just grand. The heavily wounded golden warrior will stumble to the exit in a vain attempt to see the light of day before dying, and just before he collapses he makes it known that he knows ol' Galuf. He proceeds to die, inconveniently blocking the exit, thus constituting a fire hazard.

The Water Crystal shards shine a mysterious light. That's "Sparkle" for 'please use me'. There are six shards, but one of them is blocked from your path. When you pick up the five shards you can pick up at this point, Walse Castle starts rumbling beneath your feat. There's a door, but before you can properly escape the entire peninsula sinks to the bottom of the ocean. Great, we'll be the Chosen Corpses in no time at all. Luckily, an old friend we believed to be gone comes to the rescue; Syldra helps the Chosen Warriors out of the pickle they're in with the last of his power. In a touching goodbye cutscene, Faris tearfully bids farewell to her trusted companion, who has been a friend and ally for years. The last cry of Syldra resonates in the souls of us all, and is almost too good a representation of the now irrecoverable situation of the Water crystal for us to bear.

We've got new Jobs! AWESOME!
