<a id="s4-8-3"></a>

### 4.8.3. The golden warrior and the tower of Walse

Opponents: Elf Toad (#25), Ice Soldier (#26), Ricard Mage (#27), Wyvern (#28), Pas de Seul (#29), Garula (#250)

Container contents: Ether, Maiden's Kiss, Silk Robe, Silver Armlet

Miscellaneous items: Flame Rod (rare Ricard Mage drop), Mythril Knife (common Wyvern steal), Mythril Sword (common Ice Soldier steal)

Blue Spells: Pond's Chorus

1st floor: 58 % Elf Toad, Elf Toad, Ice Soldier 42 % Ricard Mage, Ice Soldier, Ice Soldier

2nd floor: 35 % Ricard Mage, Ice Soldier, Ice Soldier 35 % Ricard Mage, Ricard Mage, Ricard Mage 30 % Elf Toad, Elf Toad, Ice Soldier

3rd floor: 35 % Wyvern 35 % Ricard Mage, Ice Soldier, Ice Soldier 30 % Wyvern, Pas de Seul

4th floor: 58 % Wyvern, Pas de Seul 42 % Pas de Seul

5th floor: 35 % Pas de Seul, Ricard Mage, Ice Soldier 35 % Wyvern, Pas de Seul 23 % Pas de Seul 6 % Pas de Seul, Pas de Seul

6th floor: 35 % Pas de Seul, Pas de Seul 35 % Ricard Mage, Ice Soldier, Ice Soldier 30 % Ricard Mage, Ricard Mage, Ricard Mage

7th floor: 70 % Wyvern, Wyvern 30 % Elf Toad, Elf Toad, Elf Toad

8th floor: 35 % Wyvern, Wyvern 35 % Ricard Mage, Ricard Mage, Ricard Mage 23 % Ice Soldier, Ice Soldier 6 % Wyvern

Elf Toads are weak to Ice-elemental attacks, so any Black Mage with the Frost Rod should be taking them out easily. MT'd, the Blizzard spell isn't powerful enough to kill them, not even with the Frost Rod. When an Elf Toad is alone, it will randomly (33 %) start to use Pond's Chorus, which sets the Toad status. Once your Blue Mage has been hit by the attack, you can kill it and you'll have learned the Blue spell Pond's Chorus. Toad completely disables the enemy; it stops special techniques, and physical attack and physical defense drops to 0. It's nice enough, especially versus the boss we're about to face. Note that the highest density of Elf Toads can be found on the very first floor, so it's best to learn the spell there.

Ice Soldiers attack physically and randomly cast a Blizzard spell, but that's nothing too threatening. What's really important here is Ice Soldier's affinity for all things sword; not only will it rarely drop a Long Sword (lame), it has common Mythril Swords (awesome) for you to steal, which are superior to your current blades. You'll note the difference, especially with Two-handed, so make sure to get one for every potential sword-wielder in your party.

Ricard Mages are arcane assholes. Here's what they do:

**st turn:** 33 % each: Sleep, Slow, Stop · **nd turn:** 33 % each: Cure, Drain, Attack

They are vulnerable to Silence, but casting Silence on them all just won't do all the time so flat-out killing them before they get to the Drain spell is a better strategy. The interesting thing about them is the fact they rarely (the same old 1/16) drop a Flame Rod, which is simply the Fire-elemental Rod of the Frost Rod you found in Carwen. They upgrade your Fire-elemental attacks by 50%, so stick to Fire when you've got it equipped. Note that Ricard is a French alcoholic beverage, so you can picture these guys drunk if you want to. "Zut alors! Dormez! Canalisation! Merde! *hickup*

Wyvern will just use Attack whenever, but not when they're alone. Oh, no. When alone, they'll get all freaky and whatnot. In fact, they'll use Breath Wing, of which the damage like with Wing Raptor will simply be 25 % of your maximum HP. Is that a good thing? No. Kill them as soon as possible, but not before you Steal one or more of those sweet common Mythril Knives they carry around. You want those for your Thieves.

Pas de Seul is annoying. They have the most HP out of any creature here, and their !Fin attack adds Poison. They're weak to Lightning-elemental attacks, so Black Thunder spells work just fine. In keeping with the French Ricard Mages, Pas de Seul means 'no one'. That's strange. Then again, it's a strange game.

Mount that Wind Drake of yours and go check out the meteor. Nobody's here and there's nothing interesting going on. There seems to be a weird discoloration on the very front of the meteorite however, which could indicate a hidden door of some sorts; there's nothing you can do to open it now, however. Let's check out Walse Tower, check out the entire militia of Walse surrounding it and all, that'd be kinda impressive.

The entire militia of Walse consists out of two wounded soldiers eating dust. It seems only three made it up there; holy beast-baby Garula that went berserk and knocked the guards down, King Walse and an unknown warrior. Strangely enough, should you fly the Wind Drake back to Walse now, Garula will be happily prancing around with the little girl as always. It's a glitch in the Matrix!

The path is entirely straight-forward and without features until you cross the body of King Walse. Still alive, but hardly. He urges you to continue and stop Garula. It slowly becomes more and more apparent some force is consciously pushing for the destruction of the crystals, but who could possibly care for the death of this world? Could that being of darkness King Tycoon spoke off have any power to influence our reality? Next to King Walse is a pillar in the water overgrown with vines. This pillar can be climbed to reach a chest containing a Silk Robe, a nice new piece of equipment for your mages.

The next floor houses a Save Point and a chest containing a Maiden's Kiss, an item used for removing the Toad status ailment. It's not until the eight floor that I get to mention something interesting again: these water-covered floors house three patches of overgrown structure. Climb the left one to find a Silver Armlet. Everybody but the Knight can equip it, but it seems to me that the Thieves and Monks of your party need it the most (especially the Thieves). Fall down the hole and climb the right patch. There's a chest with an Ether here. Climb the stairs here to reach the Water Crystal.

Both anomalies wait for you near the - thank the gods - intact Water Crystal. Garula is battling the mysterious golden warrior...and winning. In a few words, it's explained that a being is controlling Garula, and that it by these means seeks to destroy the Water Crystal. We MUST stop Garula before it can accomplish this.
