<a id="s4-8-2"></a>

### 4.8.2. Castle Walse and the coming of the second meteorite

Opponents: Elf Toad (#25), Ice Soldier (#26), Jackanapes (#30), Ice Commander (#248), Shiva (#249)

Container contents: 490 Gil, 1000 Gil x 2, Elven Mantle, Phoenix Down, Tent

Miscellaneous items: Mythril Sword (common Ice Soldier steal), Frost Rod (guaranteed Shiva drop)

Features: Lone Wolf

Time Spells: Speed

Summon Spells: Shiva

Blue Spells: Moon Flute (in theory), Pond's Chorus

When you enter the castle, there's a double wooden door to the right of the hallway and some stairs going down. Pass through the double wooden doors and in the next room, go around the stairs going up to the stairs going down. There are hidden treasures here, containing a Phoenix Down, a Tent and 490 Gil. Track back to the main hall.

There's an invisible timer ticking here, people! No, not really, I mean plot-wise. So let's say we forget about minor things for now and waltz right into King Walse' throne room, slam our fist on the table and demand discontinuation of the amplifying process of the Water Crystal. This aggression will not stand, man.

King Walse: No.

As a male writer, I'm obviously not allowed to say this, but there's something undeniably cute about King Walse. Maybe it's the fact he has no mouth, maybe it's the fact he's literally draped in colorful, partly purple robes, maybe it's that pink ball on his head or maybe it's just the way he raises his right hand in his Hey Ho Let's Go stance, but to me he is jey-ust precious! He's like a fluffy little pimp in that get-up.

iOS/Android: They left me heartbroken with this new rendition of King Walse. He looks like what'd be left of Carrot Top if he grew a beard.

At any rate, there's a new meteor now, and here's hoping the falling meteors have no causal relation to the shattering crystals. King Walse moves out with some guards to check up on Walse Tower.

**To recap:** King Walse, king of the country of Walse whose only mentionable city

is called Walse, has left Walse Castle to check up on the Tower of Walse.

Enough with the Walse! Let's follow the King out. Since the three notable features of Walse Castle are best left for a later time you can just walk out of the castle, climb on the Wind Drake and fly to the meteor. I talk about the meteor in the next chapter. If you must know about Jackanapes, the Summoned Monster Shiva that is sealed in the purified water by the Water Crystal and Lone Wolf the pickpocket, read on.

When you enter the castle, you can continue on, enter the double wooden door or descend the stairs. For all three features, we must descend the stairs.

Going even further down will get us to the cells. To the far right is a sinister old man, but on the left is where the action is happening. Lone Wolf the famous thief asks you if you want to release him. You could do so, but there are no upsides and only downsides to this. Once released, Lone Wolf will roam the world again, causing a few items to be removed from chests when YOU get there. These items include: a Blitz Whip and four Cottages, spread throughout the lands. Especially the Blitz Whip is annoying to lose as the only other way to obtain one is as a rare steal late in the game (as in: the Blitz Whip will be long useless by then).

So don't. If you DO, however, you can enter his cell and check the grey pot, which contains... nothing! In addition, the door will close behind you, forcing you to wait in the locked cell for a while before the door opens again (by itself, no less). Tight security these guys are running here. The blue-haired guy on the far left also asks you if you want to release him, but when you say "Yes" he'll get so excited he runs into the wall and passes out (which really is funny to watch a couple of hundred times on a rainy day).

Get back up and find the other stairs going down in the upper-right corner. Let me tell you something about the dreaded demon Jackanapes.

**Level:** 20, HP: 666, MP: 5000 · **Defense:** 50, Magic Defense: 50 · **Evasion:** 50%, Magic Evasion: 50% · **Steal:** Elixir (rare), Iron Draft (common) · **Win:** Phoenix Down (rare) · **Absorbs:** Fire, Ice, Lightning, Poison, Holy, Earth, Wind, Water · **Creature:** Heavy · **Special Technique:** !Critical · **Special Technique Effect:** None · **Vulnerable to:** Slow · **Attacks:** Attack, !Critical Attack, Moon Flute

Jackanapes

Jackanapes always attacks from behind, so unless you have a Thief in your party at the time (or somebody with the Vigilance support ability) you'll feel the effects of that. J-man will attack physically and with !Critical Attack (normal damage) and counter any damage done to him with a Moon Flute attack, an MT attack that sets Berserk on your characters. Your Blue Mage(s) can learn this move, but since you very likely won't be able to end this battle by a means other than escaping, there's no way to learn it at this point.

Jackanapes, while not unbeatable in the full sense of the word, presents so much of a hindrance that defeating it at this point would require incredible amounts of leveling and luck. Jackanapes absorbs all elements, and since your only non-elemental spell is the physical Goblin Punch, you'll have to rely on physical attacks only to be able to damage this guy. Its 50 % Evade rating is bad enough, but with 50 Defense any monster buys itself an insurance policy that unless the attack in question is barrier-piercing, it's not going to leave an actual mark. The only way to hurt Jackanapes at this point is by means of a Critical Hit; the Fists have an 8 % chance (for God's sake, use Barehanded) and the Ashura has a 12 % CH ratio, but that's all you have. And you just don't have the HP and power at this point to rely on this. You'll be able to defeat this guy later, but for now I suggest leaving the treasures here alone, which contain the Time Speed spell for your future Time Mage(s), 1000 Gil, another 1000 Gil and an Elven Mantle.

Note: if you know this game and know damn sure you want the Chicken Knife later, there's no downside to equipping a Thief with the !Flee ability and run from every battle, thus obtaining the treasures easily. Normal running is not as effective; Jackanapes will likely kill at least one character before you manage to escape, and using a Phoenix Down for every encounter gets pricey very fast.

The Elven Mantle is a nice Accessory which gives some nifty Elf-like stat boosts, including a 5 % Magic Evade you won't see in the menu. Its real power, however, is the fact that any character wearing the Elven Mantle will have an extra hit determination check where a rough 33 % of any blockable physical attack sent his or her way is stopped (with a spiffy cape animation, no less). It's really sweet and in my eyes superior to current and most future Defense/ Magic Defense raising Accessories.

The final feature is the road leading to Shiva. You could prepare for Walse Tower by learning the Blue spell Pond's Chorus here from the Elf Toads and Stealing common Mythril Swords from the Ice Soldiers, but since you can do this preparation in the first few battles of Walse Tower itself I see no reason to go out of your way and do it here. Shiva herself is fairly difficult to defeat at this point and you might as well do it later. She's hardly helpful to you without a character being able to summon her in battle. Let's get to that bloody tower already, thee punkster!
