<a id="s4-9-1"></a>

### 4.9.1. The Water Crystal Jobs

One crystal shard went down to the depths, together with the Tower of Walse. But five shards of the now-broken Water Crystal were saved, and they now entrust you with five warrior souls of yore.

[BERSERKER-LINK] [MYSTIC-LINK] [TIMEM-LINK]

[SUMMONER-LINK] [REDMAGE-LINK]

The Berserker starts every battle with the Berserk status, and favors Hammers and Axes in battle, both of which take only 25 % of the target's Defense into account and vary wildly in their damage output. Berserkers are slow, and while the Battle Axe is a but more damaging overall than, say, the Mythril Sword, the fact that the Berserker randomly targets opponents in the Back Row, has unpredictable damage output and misses every now and again, the Berserker is not a good choice right now. The Berserk ability that the Berserker learns after 100 ABP is a sound choice on Knights, Monks, Ninjas and other physically inclined Jobs. If your Knight has learned Twohanded, switching to Berserker isn't a bad idea; it's certainly the lazy man's choice (and boy am I lazy).

The Mystic Knight has some difficult mechanics behind it, so definetely check out the link given above. Note that they take a turn to enchant their weapon before they can be anything but an inferior Knight. They aren't as hot versus random encounters, but are great boss slayers; especially with Twohanded does the damage fly. The spells they can imbue their weapons with, come from the Black and White list, the same you buy in the Magic Shops. The Mystic Knight is surprisingly fast for a Heavy Armor kinda Job; they are outrun only by Thieves.

The Time Mage is just a Mage with a new school of magic; note that their Magic Power is nowhere near as high as the Black Mage, and more comparable with the White and Blue Mage. The spells you have right now are not very impressive, but that'll improve soon. Slow doubles a target's ATB count between turns, Haste halves it. Mute is a strange spell that makes it impossible for allies and enemies alike to cast Black, White, Time, Summon spells, Spellblade effects or use Bells. Blue spells can still be cast though. Mute will always work, but some monster encounters (most notably boss battles) will not allow Mute to be cast. In random battles, the Time Mages are best used for either Black or Blue spells (if the action ability is set) or to cast Haste on your most powerful physical attacker.

The Summoner is the one that can conjure up some Chocobo, some Sylph fey and Remora fish; all spells you could simply buy in Walse. This is also the Job that will be able to summon Shiva; the Summoner is generally the Job to go to for mass-nuking of the battlefield with heavy multi-target elemental attacks. At this point, the Summoner has three creatures to conjure. The Chocobo arrives to perform a Chocobo Kick to a single target; it targets Defense rather than Magic Defense and may miss due to Magic Evasion; there is an 8% chance that a Fat Chocobo may appear to deal unblockable damage that targets Defense to the entire enemy party. Sylph deals magical, unblockable damage to a single target and heals the amount of damage done / 4 to all four characters; Remora use Constrict to set Paralyze to a single target.

The Red Mage is the Jack or Jill of all Trades, Master of None (but Swanky Hats). It's AWESOME now; the Red Mage is able to cast both Black and White magic; only up to the level 3 spells, but that's not an issue right now. Do note that the Red Mage's Magic Power is significantly lower than other Mages, which also means his or her MP will run out sooner. It's capable of wielding Swords and has a Strength bonus, but you'd better give him an elemental Rod and cast spells from the Back Row.

If you have mastered level 3 !Black and level 3 !White, I'd personally shoot for !Summon from the Summoner rather than !Time from the Time Mage as especially Shiva can clean massive house and the Time Mage just fails to deliver at this stage of the game. If you have magically-inclined characters that have neither !White nor !Black to any large degree (focused on !Blue, for instance), you wish to learn !Red instead.

Now that the overwhelming tragedies of the past moments have passed, there's time to reflect on more practical matters. Where is Hiryu? Is it safe? Is it alright? And where's King Walse, did he manage to escape Walse Tower while we were going head-to-head with the possessed Garula or was he swallowed in the raging waters?

On the Overworld Map, it seems the Wind Drake made it to dry land, but we really couldn't expect anything else from a flying dragon such as the Wind Drake. Flying the Wind Drake to Walse Castle and walking through the halls to find the throne room and the subsequent quarters of King Walse teaches us that yes indeed, the mangled monarch is still alive enough to breathe. He urges you to travel to Karnak, where another Crystal is being amplified and where, as news would have it, another meteor crashed, bad omens as they turn out to be. However, where should we find the means to go there? Karnak lies to the far west, across the mountains which are too high for the Wind Drake to pass over. Problems abound.

A wandering Karnak soldier can be found in Walse Castle as well. He appears to have waken up near Walse. He was investigating the crashed Karnak meteor. Maybe there's a connection between the Walse meteorite and the Karnak meteorite? We might as well check it out.

This is the time where you're told about the possibility of going back to Castle Tycoon, but I already told you to go there. If you haven't yet, now's the time, and I helpfully shift your attention towards said section, section 4.7.1.

A little foreshadowing: in the town of Karnak, you'll be able to buy the Fira spell, which will be immensely helpful in the fight versus Shiva. You can either try to take her on now, which is also quite doable with some preparation (or, if you have one or more Flame Rods, broken Flame Rods), or go to Karnak, work through the cutscenes there, return to Walse and easily knock her out cold.

That's funny because she's an Ice-elemental entity.

[SHIVA-LINK]

At any rate, fly the Wind Drake to the meteor and say goodbye to it, as you can't bring dragons of 7"3 or higher into the meteor. Inside, there's a tile that looks so psychedelic it either has to be a warp stone or something LSD- related. It's not something LSD-related. Onto Karnak county!

If you have a Summoner and have already defeated Shiva, make sure to give the Summoner a Frost Rod to deal 50 % extra damage with the Ice-elemental summon monster's attack.
