<a id="s5-0"></a>

## 5.0. Menus and Game Options: As boring as a concrete floor in math class

Start menu:

New Game: Starts a new game.

Load Game: Loads any of the up to four games you've saved in the past. To indicate what games they are, the location of saving, playtime, amount of Gil and party status is given. When the game has been finished (i.e. the Super Famicom and PSX final boss has been defeated and the ending has played) a white star is present after 'File'.

**Extra:** These obviously only exist in the Advance release. They contain the

Bestiary and Music Player.

- Bestiary The Bestiary allows you to see the stats of all normal monsters in the game, including bosses. You can select any of the four save files you currently have to view all monsters once killed at the moment of saving. A percentage is displayed right to 'Monsters slain' to indicate your progress. Completely filing the Bestiary bestows no in-game benefits, though a 100% FFVA Bestiary has been known to function as a powerful aphrodisiac (not really).

Every listed monster has three stars which disappear when you've seen their stats. They all have a number and after the name you can see exactly how many of this species you've killed. Press action to view the monster's stats, elemental properties, nature and status immunities.

In-game menu:

Job: Allows you to select a character for Job switching; after you've picked a Job you'll be automatically sent to the Ability menu to select an action or support ability, which you can skip by pressing B. You are then transported to the Equip menu where you are either assigned 'Optimum' equipment or left to equip your character yourself (depending on your preferences).

Ability: Allows you to select a support or action ability without changing the Job. You are then transported to the Equip menu where you are either assigned 'Optimum' equipment or left to equip your character yourself (depending on your preferences). Action abilities are indicated with exclamation marks (!). You can naturally only choose abilities that you have earned, with the exception of !Attack and !Item which are inherent to all Jobs but the Mime and which are given automatically as options when you obtain the Mime Job.

Item: You can view your inventory here, and use restorative potions to heal HP and remove status ailments. Tents and Cottages can only be used on the Overworld Map or on Save Points. 'Sort' automatically sorts out your equipment by type, a feature not present in the original SNES game. It uses the following list:

Potions Drinks (for !Drink and !Combine) Reagens (for !Mix and !Combine) Shuriken (for !Throwk and !Combine) Gunpowder (for !Combine) Knives (also Man-Eater) Ninja Blades Swords Knightswords Lances (also Twin Lance) Axes/Hammers Katanas Rods Staves (also Flail and Morning Star) Bows Harps Whips Bells Moonring Blade/Rising Sun Shields Light Helmets Hats Heavy Helmets Clothes Robes Heavy Armor Gauntlets Armlets Shoes Rings Misc. Accessories

There are also Rare items, with nothing but a narrative purpose.

Magic: You can select a character and have him or her use Magic spells provided they are capable of casting them; the proper Job or action ability must be set. You can cast the following spells from the menu; Cure, Poisona, Cura, Raise, Esuna, Curaga, Arise, Dispel (can only remove Float), Toad, Float and Teleport (which warps you to the beginning of a dungeon if you're in one; if not, the spell can't be used).

Equip: You can equip your equipment with Equip! Optimize will only look at listed Attack when determining weapons, and only at Defense when looking at your Head, Body and Accessory slots. Since you may want equip weapons or armor for other purposes, and because weapons have different damage algorithms, the 'Optimum' choice may not be the best.

Status: Allows you to look at all relevant information of a character with the notable exception of Magic Evasion, the hidden stat. Equipment weight is listed on the second screen, as is any monster you may be carrying around due to !Catch.

Config:

- Battle Mode set to 'Wait' will have monster stop acting when you're picking through your menus. Their ATB bar will not fill, they will not execute attacks. Helpful, but removes a sense of urgency that may be contributing to your gaming experience. - Battle Speed determines the pause between you selecting your command and your characters executing it, and gives you more time to choose options when Battle Mode is set to 'Active'. The Speed spell appears to alter this setting for the duration of the battle, setting it to about 5, easing the flow of a tough battle if your Battle Speed is normally set pretty low. - Battle Message governs the time battle messages will fill the screen - Command Settings 'Standard' is what you're used to; Short will let every conceivable action be governed by a single button push, customizable if you're so inclined. - ATB Gauge 'On' lets the game show you its naughty ATB Gauge; if 'Off', it'll display maximum HP along with current HP in that space. - Reequip tells the game what to do when you change Job and/or Ability; apply 'Optimum' equipment without your intervention, or you doing all the work. Early in the game, Optimize has no drawbacks; later, you may want to think a bit about your favorite set-up. - Cursor Position set to 'Remember' is great if you're lazy and have one-trick ponies for characters. It lets the game remember the last place the cursos was one the previous turn, so that it stays on !Kick, !Zeninage or !Item, however you please. It'll even remember an option out of a subset menu, such as Syldra from !Summon. - Auto-Dash lets you run all the time; you'll still have to press B for the Thief's Sprint ability, it won't automatically do that even if you have a Thief or another character with the Sprint ability. - Window Color lets you change the Window Color, Einstein. - Bestiary lets you see all your victims; their number slain, their name, most of their attributes (not Magic Evasion though, of their possession of a Heavy nature if applicable, neither inherent statuses).

Quicksave: lets you quicksave a game; the save file is removed when you load it once, so you can't retry things from a quicksave file. Something quirky with this game is how it forces you into a set pattern of monster formations; the 23% one first, the 6% one second. This allows you to quickly scout out elusive monsters if you want to fight them; handy versus Stingray, Tonberry, Movers, things of that nature. A bug it is, so feel dirty if you use this.

Save: Normal Saving.

In the original SNES game, there were also options to set Sound to Mono or Stereo, you could have greater control over the function of the various buttons and you could play the game with two players, assigning any of the characters to either controller.

THE END
