<a id="s6-0"></a>

## 6.0. Jobs JOB-LINK

Jobs will become available throughout the game. When in a Job, a character will gain ABility Points, or ABP. By gaining ABP, the character unlocks an ability learned from that Job, but only for him- or herself.

Setting a Job will change the stats of the character. What is absolutely vital to understand is the concept that leveling does not in any way raise stats or enhance compatibility. A level 50 Bartz raised as a Monk all the time will make as good a Black Mage as one raised as a Black Mage all that time. HP is changed along with a different Stamina value (since Stamina governs HP) and MP is changed along with a different Magic (Power) value (since Magic governs MP).

Unlike Freelancers, Jobs will have a limited equipment pool. A Knight can equip Swords and Knightsword, but not Harps. A White Mage can equip Robes, but not Heavy Armor.

Jobs can have inherent abilities that are set no matter what. A Monk will always have Barehanded and Counter, a Mystic Knight will always have Magic Shell.

Mastering a Job will unlock the stat boosts (but not penalties!) and most inherent abilities of that Job (if any) for the Freelancer and Mime Jobs. When Bartz masters the Monk Job, he will have the Monk's Strength, Agility and Stamina as a Freelancer, but not the Monk's abysmal Magic Power. In addition, he will gain Counter and Barehanded as inherent abilities, but not the HP boosting support abilities. Note that stat boosts do NOT stack. Once you've mastered Monk, mastering any other Job will not further boost the Strength of your Freelancer.

Some action and support abilities not only allow a character to execute a feat it would not normally be able to; some also raise stats to pass along the stat of the Job the ability came from. The Knight's Equip Sword support ability also gives the character the Knight's Strength (but only if it were higher than the original Job's Strength). Abilities that grant a spell list often increase Magic Power while equipment options often increase Strength and Agility.

Below is a list of all the Jobs and their statistic adjustments. I grouped them according to equipment options, which is a good indication of their intended role. Heavy Armor, Clothes and Hybrid Jobs are subsequently listed from highest Strength to lowest Strength; the Robe Jobs are listed from highest Magic to lowest Magic. Since HP and MP are directly governed by respectively Vitality and Magic Power, those values are not given.

Str. Agl. Vit. Mag. ABP needed to master:

Heavy Armor: Gladiator 26 14 3 -14 700 Knight 23 1 20 -14 710 Berserker 21 - 9 25 -23 500 Samurai 19 2 19 -12 820 Dragoon 18 5 15 -12 600 Mystic Knight 14 14 14 1 680

Clothes: Monk 26 1 26 -23 700 Ranger 16 12 1 - 5 600 Ninja 15 14 3 -10 690 Beastmaster 13 1 8 - 3 460 Thief 1 16 2 - 6 635

Hybrid: Cannoneer 9 6 6 4 500 Blue Mage 8 1 3 23 350 Red Mage 8 4 6 8 1159 Dancer 5 5 -10 - 5 400 Chemist 2 3 6 - 4 630

Robe: Oracle - 9 - 1 - 4 36 520 Summoner -10 - 1 - 1 33 750 Black Mage - 9 - 2 31 730 Necromancer 4 1 21 29 750 White Mage - 7 1 25 580 Time Mage - 5 2 - 3 24 530 Geomancer 4 2 4 24 175 Bard - 8 8 - 9 11 175

Note that characters have slightly different statistics compared to each other. The difference is minor, though, and if you want to use this knowledge to minimize weak points or maximize strong points is entirely up to you.

Str. Agl. Vit. Mag.

Bartz 3 1 3 1 Lenna 2 1 4 Galuf 2 4 Faris 2 3 2 2 Krile 4 3

Bartz' stats synergize well with Jobs with high Strength and Vitality, which includes Heavy Armor Jobs. Lenna has the highest innate Magic Power of the five characters you get to control, Galuf has the highest Vitality of the five and a bit of Strength, so he leans towards Front Row physical positions as well. Faris has the highest all-round stats with a peak in Agility, so she is your Joker. She is best with Knives, Bows and Whips though, as well as the !Throw command. Krile has both the highest Agility and additional Magic Power, so she maximizes damage output from spellcasters.

Table of Contents:

6.1 Knight 6.2 Monk 6.3 Thief 6.4 Dragoon 6.5 Ninja 6.6 Samurai 6.7 Berserker 6.8 Ranger 6.9 Mystic Knight 6.10 White Mage 6.11 Black Mage 6.12 Time Mage 6.13 Summoner 6.14 Blue Mage 6.15 Red Mage 6.16 Beastmaster 6.17 Chemist 6.18 Geomancer 6.19 Bard 6.20 Dancer 6.21 Necromancer 6.22 Oracle 6.23 Cannoneer 6.24 Gladiator 6.25 Mime 6.26 Freelancer

I will talk below about how action and support abilities work. If an action ability opens up a menu with multiple choices or the action ability itself will randomly do any number of things, section 7.0 will have it listed.

I will also talk about how a Job will perform through the game in a manner I hope you'll find unbiased. Since it's impossible to tackle a Job as a whole, I'll look at it from three sides: the Job itself (and how it may perform with other abilities), the abilities it teaches (and how useful they can be on other Jobs) and how it affects the Freelancer (and Mime) Job. This is to circumvent ratings without meaning; giving the Red Mage a high score disregards how bad it sucks, giving it a low score ignores !Dualcast, giving it a medium score reflects neither.

Finally, there is the "position in optimal play" section. It is mostly what I have come to use that Job for after several dozen playthroughs. Please don't judge that number. Don't feel disheartened if I say how your favorite Job has no place in my games. Doing things differently is a lot of fun, and almost every combination of Jobs and abilities is effective enough to win you the game.
