<a id="s6-1"></a>

## 6.1. Knight KNIGHT-LINK

"Valiant warriors who protect allies low on HP."

Stats: Strength: + 23 Agility: + 01 Vitality: + 20 Magic Power: - 14

**Can equip:** Knives, Swords, Knightswords, Shields, Heavy Helmets, Clothes, · **Freelancer gains:** Cover, Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus

Heavy Armor, Gauntlets

!Attack !Guard ---- !Item

10 ABP Cover 30 ABP !Guard 50 ABP Two-Handed 100 ABP Equip Shield 150 ABP Equip Armor 350 ABP Equip Swords

Cover 10 ABP Support ability A character with Cover will absorb Battle and Special Techniques meant for other characters, but only characters that are crouching down (having 12.5 % of their maximum HP or less). If the character in question has Petrify, Zombie, Death, Sleep, Paralyze, Confuse, Berserk or Stop set, or is off-screen, Cover won't activate.

!Guard 40 ABP Action ability After using !Guard, the character will not perform any action but to sit there, guarding. The guarding character will not take any direct damage from physical hits, though the Sap status caused by the physical hit will still damage the character. Counterattacks are still activated, so physical attackers can be completely locked down by a combination of !Guard and the Counter support ability.

Two-Handed 90 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Will raise any character's Strength to base Freelancer Strength + 13. In addition, Swords, Knightswords, Axes/Hammers and Katanas, in addition to those weapon groups, the Staff, the Flail and the Morning Star may be held in two hands, doubling damage done. No shield can be equipped while this support ability is active.

Equip Shield 190 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Shields can be equipped.

Equip Armor 340 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Heavy Armor can be equipped. This only includes armor, not shields, heavy helmets or gauntlets.

Equip Swords 710 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Will raise any character's Strength to base Freelancer Strength + 23. Also, Swords and Knightswords can be equipped.

As a Job: The Knight is the first heavy armor Job you get, and will not get outclassed at the physical powerhouse department. The Knight has the highest Strength in the original installment, and you won't be getting to the slightly more powerful Gladiator in a long long time. The only heavy armor Job with more Stamina is uncontrollable and slow. The Knight is the only Job that is able to equip the powerful Knightswords and is the only heavy armor Job with a support ability that helps out the team. The combination of Cover and !Guard can provide immunity to physical attacks for the entire team, provided the other three characters are all crouching down. The Knight is simple, really, but good at what it does.

Taught abilities: The Knight is the essential starting point of any heavy armor characters. Two-Handed helps out Berserkers, Samurai, Mystic Knights and Gladiators alike. The Equip Knightstuff abilities will only find meaning it you multiclass outside of the Heavy Armor Jobpool, and if you're sure you won't need extra options in a boss fight or dungeon, Equip Shields can really rank up a mage's survivability, but only later in the game where Shields have a stronger impact. Ninjas can benefit from two Knightswords, and the Strength boost comes in handy as well. !Guard is useful on Monks to make units physically invulnerable while still doing damage (through Counter). Cover is a triviality late-game where the Mirage Vest, Mighty Guard and Golem make sure physical attacks are not very dangerous in general. It can be handy when you're forced to revive a character with a Phoenix Down or Raise spell; they'll be vulnerable before they're healed further, and Cover provides them with efficient protection. In the end, Two-Handed only increase the damage potential of other Jobs I'm not terribly impressed with, so I often play games where no characters gets to be a Knight.

Freelancer gains: Nice Strength and Stamina bonus (though not as high as the Monk's). While playing like a pro, Cover should never kick in at all, though as a safety net it's better than nothing. A Mastered Knight turned Freelancer is better at it than a Knight due to equipment choices such as a Ribbon and more Magic Power to utilize a Rune Blade.

Position in optimal play: Probably nowhere, though if you learn the Monk's Counter you can make it face certain behemoths that can only attack physically. If you are uncertain about your offensive build, Cover has a role to play in places where enemies can combine single-digit HP-setting attacks with physical attacks, such as the forests filled with Treants, Drakenvale and the Dimension Castle where Death Claws may appear.
