<a id="s6-10"></a>

## 6.10. White Mage WHITEM-LINK

"Priests who use white magic to heal and protect allies."

Stats: Strength: - 07 Agility: + 01 Vitality: 00 Magic Power: + 25

Can Equip: Staves, Hats, Robes, Armlets

Freelancer gains: Agility bonus, Magic Power bonus

!Attack !White ---- !Item

10 ABP !White (level 1) 20 ABP !White (level 2) 30 ABP !White (level 3) 50 ABP !White (level 4) 70 ABP !White (level 5) 100 ABP !White (level 6) 300 ABP MP +10%

!White 1 10 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 15 and allows the character to cast level 1 White Magic. For more info on !White, see [WHITE-LINK]

!White 2 30 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 17 and allows the character to cast level 2 White Magic.

!White 3 60 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 19 and allows the character to cast level 3 White Magic.

!White 4 110 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 21 and allows the character to cast level 4 White Magic.

!White 5 180 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 23 and allows the character to cast level 5 White Magic.

!White 6 280 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 25 and allows the character to cast all White Magic.

MP +10% 580 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Maximum MP increases by 10 %.

As a Job: White Mages suck! Boo! No, seriously, it's easy to miss how bad they are, but they are. Here's how. They have quite a bit less Magic Power than, say, Black Mages or Summoners. In addition, they can equip neither Rods NOR Knives. Throughout their career, the White Mage cannot boost Black spells or even the powerful Wind-elemental attack of the Summoner. Not counting the very end where through a single Staff the White Mage can boost the Holy spell, you will always be better off sticking White magic on a Black Mage or Summoner. There is a small window during with Titan is your most powerful spell; since the White Mage can equip Gaia Gear, he can boost like everybody else. You should use this time to train your White Mages, since !White is a handy spell list to have.

Taught abilities: !White is quite potent, and thus the White Mage is redeemed. Buffs are often trivial, but healing of HP and status ailments is useful and raising the fallen even moreso. What can I say? You'll want a spot for !White versus bosses. When the Blue spell White Wind can be learned, the White Mage's healing hands become somewhat less important, but its buff spells such as Shell and Image become more potent. At the end of the game, the single offensive White spell, Holy, makes a grand appearance. The only two weapons to boost its power are a Staff and a Bell, thus making the Time Mage, Red Mage, Chemist, Geomancer and Oracle the best Holy casters. Otherwise, !White just runs off Magic Power, so powerful mages make powerful White mages.

Freelancer gains: Nothing, really. MP + 10% needs to be set and is inferior to the similar MP + 30% anyway. The only stat is really raises is Magic Power, at which it is not very adept compared to other Mages. !White 6 is awesome to be able to set to Freelancers and Mimes, though.

Position in optimal play: Try to decide if elemental boosting is relevant for the dungeon you're about to face. If not, it's probably a great time to train your White Mages. You will want to learn how to cast !White 6.
