<a id="s6-11"></a>

## 6.11. Black Mage BLACKM-LINK

"Wizards whose powerful black magic strikes fear into enemies."

Stats: Strength: - 09 Agility: 00 Vitality: - 02 Magic Power: + 31

Can equip: Knives, Rods, Hats, Robes, Armlets

Freelancer gains: Magic Power bonus

!Attack !Black ---- !Item

10 ABP !Black (level 1) 20 ABP !Black (level 2) 30 ABP !Black (level 3) 50 ABP !Black (level 4) 70 ABP !Black (level 5) 100 ABP !Black (level 6) 450 ABP MP +30%

!Black 1 10 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 16 and allows the character to cast level 1 Black Magic. For more info on !Black, see [BLACK-LINK]

!Black 2 30 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 19 and allows the character to cast level 2 Black Magic.

!Black 3 60 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 22 and allows the character to cast level 3 Black Magic.

!Black 4 110 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 25 and allows the character to cast level 4 Black Magic.

!Black 5 180 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 28 and allows the character to cast level 5 Black Magic.

!Black 6 280 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 31 and allows the character to cast all Black Magic.

MP +30% 730 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Increases maximum MP by 30 %

As a Job: The Black Mage has great Magic Power (second only to the Summoner and late-game Oracle) and the ability to wield Rods. You've won right there! The Black Mage has everything you'd want from him. I don't know what to say about him! The Black Mage is better at healing than the White Mage if you give him White spells, and since he has offense built-in the Black Mage can be boosted by, say, Equip Shield, !Lance, !Animals, whatever half-decent utility option you can think of. Just don't try to give weapons to the guy, it's not what he's here for.

Taught abilities: The Black spelllist is quite excellent throughout the entire game. The three elements the Black Mage specializes in are the three most popular elements to be weak against and are easily boosted as well. It's too bad the ultimate Black spell, Flare, is non-elemental and cannot be boosted, meaning it'll fall short of boosted 'lesser' spells. Black spells have a problem with Reflective enemies, but they are rare indeed.

Freelancer gains: Nothing again, really. Not the highest Magic Power, no inherent abilities. MP + 30% is quite useless as well.

Position in optimal play: You'll want to learn !Black 6, and that's no chore since these guys can equip Rods. Their usefulness peaks just past Karnak and Moore, since they get to buy powerful new spells there. Don't take Black Mages or other characters with !Black into the Fire-Powered Ship or the Great Forest of Moore, or have them face Byblos or Rocket Launchers, since while Confused they make attack your party with powerful magic spells. Lamia's Tiara or Reflect Rings help prevent this nonsense.
