<a id="s6-12"></a>

## 6.12. Time Mage TIMEM-LINK

"Masters of space and time, these mages easily bend all dimensions to their will."

Stats: Strength: - 05 Agility: + 02 Vitality: - 03 Magic Power: + 24

Can equip: Knives, Rods, Staves, Hats, Robes, Armlets

Freelancer gains: Agility bonus, Magic Power bonus

!Attack !Time ---- !Item

10 ABP !Time (level 1) 20 ABP !Time (level 2) 30 ABP !Time (level 3) 50 ABP !Time (level 4) 70 ABP !Time (level 5) 100 ABP !Time (level 6) 250 ABP Equip Rods

!Time 1 10 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 14 and allows the character to cast level 1 Dimension Magic. For more info on !Time, see [TIME-LINK]

!Time 2 30 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 16 and allows the character to cast level 2 Dimension Magic.

!Time 3 60 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 18 and allows the character to cast level 3 Dimension Magic.

!Time 4 110 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 20 and allows the character to cast level 4 Dimension Magic.

!Time 5 180 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 22 and allows the character to cast level 5 Dimension Magic.

!Time 6 280 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 24 and allows the character to cast all Dimension Magic.

Equip Rods 530 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Allows the character to equip Rods, Staves and the Flail & Morning Star.

As a Job: The Time Mage performs as a lesser Black Mage; Magic Power is lower by a fair bit and !Time has trouble dealing damage, meaning that you're stuck setting something like !Black or !Summon as your secondary ability. The Time Mage can, however, equip Rods and thus have enough damage potential as long as you make sure they can cast spells to deal damage in the first place. You won't be disappointed by the Time spellist, though their worth is far more clear in longer battles where buffs and debuffs make the difference.

Taught abilities: Equip Rods, to start with that, is worthless. It would be needed if there was a Job with respectable Magic Power and elemental options that would otherwise lack any means of boosting elements. There is no such thing. A Ninja or Beastmaster could stand to boost Scrolls and Released monster attack, but the Ninja is better off with an ability to boost Magic Power and the only monsters worth Catching and Releasing are those who use the non-elemental (Strong) Attack anyway.

!Time is a great skillset to set on Black Mages and Summoners, as it gives them buff and debuff options next to violence. Since such a large part of !Time doesn't depend on the caster's Magic Power or elemental boosting, !Time is the only skillset that works well on any Job; Monks could use it and be glad they did. Even Comet and Meteor function independent of the caster's Magic Power score. !Time's most potent spells, Meteor and Quick, are tremendously costly MP-wise, so Gold Hairpins are to be used when possible.

Freelancer gains: Nothing. Magic Power isn't too hot, other stats don't do anything and the Time Mage has no inherent abilities. !Time is a great second spellist for a Mime, though; together with !Dualcast and either !Black or !Summon, !Time is an essential cogwheel in the Magical Mime Machine of Massacre.

Position in optimal play: Learn !Time 6 with your mages. It's all about Haste and Slow in most battles, and Reset in a select few such as the Exdeath battle in Exdeath's Castle and possibly some battles where you want to Steal Angel Rings or Mirage Vests. Time Mages are also optimal versus Archeodemon, whose bane is the Meteor spell.
