<a id="s6-13"></a>

## 6.13. Summoner SUMMONER-LINK

"Sorcerers with the ability to summon magical beings and harness their power."

Stats: Strength: - 10 Agility: - 01 Vitality: - 01 Magic Power: + 33

Can equip: Knives, Rods, Hats, Robes, Armlets

Freelancer gains: Magic Power bonus

!Attack !Summon ---- !Item

15 ABP !Summon (level 1) 30 ABP !Summon (level 2) 45 ABP !Summon (level 3) 60 ABP !Summon (level 4) 100 ABP !Summon (level 5) 500 ABP !Call

!Summon 1 15 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 17 and allows the character to cast level 1 Summon Magic. For more info on !Summon, see [SUMMON-LINK]

!Summon 2 45 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 21 and allows the character to cast level 2 Summon Magic.

!Summon 3 90 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 25 and allows the character to cast level 3 Summon Magic.

!Summon 4 150 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 29 and allows the character to cast level 4 Summon Magic.

!Summon 5 250 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 33 and allows the character to cast all Summon Magic.

!Call 750 ABP Action ability Calls forth a random Summon monster that you've obtained for no MP cost. Call may use any attack; Odin will use Gungnir when Heavy targets are present, Fat Chocobo may appear and Phoenix may revive a character if it randomly targets a Dead character.

As a Job: The Summoner goes toe-to-toe with the Black Mage the entire game, sometimes surpassing it and sometimes falling behind it a bit. Better at crowd control versus stronger ST attacks. Various defensive options versus offensive status ailments. As a Job, the Summoner has a bit higher Magic Power and was the most powerful caster until the Oracle was invented. Summoners can equip Rods as well, so nothing to wish for there. The Summoner is awesome.

Taught abilities: The offensive spells are awesome. Titan can be boosted with Gaia Gear and thus by White Mages. Syldra can be boosted by a Knife and thus by any Job except the Monk and White Mage. Golem and Odin are just great as additional options next to straight violence. !Summon is a great offensive ability for those that lack offensive options, generally better so than !Black. Thoughout most of the game, having two !Summon casters summon the most potent Summon beast at that point will clear the battlefield. This may become a burdon on your MP though, so the Gold Hairpin can be helpful.

!Call is not very practical in serious fights, but it's fun and it's free. Just note that !Call does not boost Magic Power in any way, so it's best to use !Call on Black Mages, Summoners and Oracles.

Freelancer gains: The highest Magic Power boost in the old games and only the second-highest in the GBA release, the Summoner gives a hefty boost to spellcasting shlobs.

Position in optimal play: Easily one of the most important Jobs in the game, since !Summon helps train a lot of Jobs otherwise devoid of any real damage potential. In the Super Famicom game obviously necessary to master because of the Magic Power stat, in all other releaes unnecessary to master since !Call is irrelevant. In general, dual Ifrit summoning on the first world, dual Titan summoning on the second world, dual Syldra summoning on the third world and dual Leviathan summoning in the Interdimensional Rift is a key to winning most random battles of the game.
