<a id="s6-14"></a>

## 6.14. Blue Mage BLUEM-LINK

"Mages with the ability to learn monster's special skills."

Stats: Strength: - 08 Agility: + 01 Vitality: + 03 Magic Power: + 23

**Can equip:** Knives, Swords, Rods, Shields, Hats, Light Helmets, Clothes, Robes, · **Freelancer gains:** Agility bonus, Vitality bonus, Magic Power bonus, Learning

Armlets

!Attack !Blue ---- !Item

10 ABP !Check 20 ABP Learning 70 ABP !Blue 250 ABP !Scan

!Check 10 ABP Action ability Displays target's current HP and maximum HP. Due to a bug, it won't display elemental weaknesses like it was supposed to.

Learning 30 ABP Support ability In order to learn Blue Magic after a battle, the struck target needs to have the Learning ability equipped.

!Blue 100 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 23 and allows the character to cast all Blue magic the party has learned up to that point. For more info on !Blue, see [BLUE-LINK]

!Scan 350 ABP Action ability Displays a target's current HP, maximum HP, elemental weaknesses and currently inflicted status ailments.

As a Job: As the only Job to combine both Learning and the ability to cast Blue magic, you'll find yourself switching to them on occasion. However, the Blue Mage's Magic Power isn't very impressive for a Mage, Goblin Punch works better on characters with higher Strength and White Wind, ??? and Self-Destruct work better on those with much Vitality. Since Blue Mages can equip Rods, setting a high !Summon or !Black spelllist is a great way to give even more offense to the Blue Mage; with healing, buffs and debuffs, the Blue Mage already has all the utility he'll ever need.

Taught abilities: !Blue is a great ability that can deal magical damage, HP-based damage, Strength-based damage and various buffs and debuffs, so there really isn't any Job that uses it much better than others. An interesting and important note is, though, that the Air Knife boosts the Wind-elemental attacks; everybody can equip the Air Knife except for the Monk and the White Mage, so it's easy to boost the element. A downside could be that learning Blue spells when they become available can be a true hassle sometimes. With only White Wind and Mighty Guard, !Blue is also a superior choice to bring into any given boss battle, let alone all those other Blue spells that you can use to make the game cry. For more, see [BLUE-LINK]

Freelancer gains: Learning, but by the time you switch to Freelancers you probably no longer need to learn anything. Stat boosts aren't impressive either.

Position in optimal play: Aqua Breath kills the Sandworm. Level 5 Death kills Jackanapes, Adamantoise, Soul Cannon's Launchers, ArcheoAevis' last form and Objet d'Art enemies. Dark Spark in combination with Level 5 Death kills Ramuh, Gilgamesh #3, Atomos, and Sekhmet. Death Claw cripples Byblos, Ramuh, Manticore, Kuza Beasts, Tyrannosaur, the Dragon Pod, Yellow Dragons and the ? crystal guardians Goblin Punch and Missile greatly help out most physical attacks by providing Back Row OK unblockable damage with the weapon they are wielding as well as percentage-based damage that often is more powerful than their physical attack versus non-Heavy targets. Mighty Guard and White Wind are great boons in all boss battles, and Mighty Guard is a superior method of setting Shell, which more or less required to survive Neo Exdeath's Almagest. 1000 Needles is a unique attack that punches through all defenses, allowing you to easily damage such cretins as Jackanapes, Skull Eaters, Ghidra, Archeoaevis and Gilgamesh #2 after his power-up.

!Blue screws over more boss battles than any other ability. You don't have to strain too much to learn all Blue spells, or even the good ones at the first opportunity. Death Claw from Iron Claw or Level 3 Flare from Red Dragons isn't at all necessary. Just go out of your way to learn White Wind and Mighty Guard. I would strongly advise letting all four characters learn !Blue at some point.
