<a id="s6-15"></a>

## 6.15. Red Mage REDMAGE-LINK

"Versatile mages, versed in both black and white magic.

Stats: Strength: + 08 Agility: + 04 Vitality: + 06 Magic Power: + 08

**Can equip:** Knives, Swords, Rods, Staves, Hats, Light Helmets, Clothes, Robes, · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus, Magic bonus

Armlets

!Attack !Red ---- !Item

20 ABP !Red (level 1) 40 ABP !Red (level 2) 100 ABP !Red (level 3) 999 ABP !Dualcast

!Red 1 20 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 2 and allows the character to cast level 1 White and Black Magic.

!Red 2 60 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 5 and allows the character to cast level 2 White and Black Magic.

!Red 3 160 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 8 and allows the character to cast level 3 White and Black Magic.

!Dualcast 1159 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 8 and allows the character to cast level 3 White and Black Magic. In addition, this ability allows you to cast two spells in a single turn from the Red spelllist as well as any !Black, !White, !Time and !Summon spell your character is able to perform.

As a Job: The Red Mage seems a jack-of-all-trades, but is actually the greatest mage as long as you give him higher-level spells and the Magic Power that comes with it. The Red Mage may be able to equip Swords, but without Shields, Heavy Armor or decent Stamina, you'll want to play him as a pure caster. As a caster, he lacks the Magic Power to be truly effective. His ability to wield Rods and Staves makes him a worthwhile recipient of a spellist which boosts his Magic Power to great levels, though. A Red Mage with !Summon has all the strengths of a Summoner, but more Stamina and up to eighteen additional utility spells.

The Red Mage does not learn any spell of a higher level than level 3, meaning that after the first third of the game, the Red Mage falls behind in power even more harshly without multiclassing. Keep his offense up to date with something like !Summon and he'll play as the greatest caster ever, but since you get no short-term reward of leveling as one, it's likely you'll abandon him in favor of upgrading spellists of other casters or learning other abilities.

Taught abilities: The !Red spell-list levels twice as slowly but gets you both White and Black spells to cast. This is great in the first world, and being able to throw around status ailments and Raise is still a great boon to any caster even when the damaging and healing spells fall behind in power. !Red 3 is a great ability to have during the first world. The cost here is that any time spent with the Red Mage will, past that point, seem like a waste since you'll want to have access to level 4 spells and higher on other Jobs, and you threw away 160 ABP for a short term benefit.

!Dualcast is what makes mages great. You'll want this so bad, people often don't have any idea what to do with the Red Mage and still suffer through 999 ABP just to get the ability for their Summoners. !Dualcast is undeniably awesome, though learning the ability need not be a chore. !Summon or !Black, boost the element(s), you're as good as any Black Mage or Summoner itself. Reaching !Dualcast takes almost 1200 ABP, which is about 50 % of what a character normally obtains throughout the game without grinding. You decide if you think it's worth it.

Freelancer gains: Stat gains across the board, technically, but they're overshadowed by other Jobs. !Dualcast is key to the magical mayhem that can be unlocked end-game, so get it.

Position in optimal play: Spending any time with the Red Mage other than with the express purpose of learning !Dualcast at the end of the game is suboptimal. Learning !Dualcast is a great chore with a great pay-off. It's certainly optimal to get it, but I would only advise using the Red Mages around the save point just prior to the final Exdeath / Neo Exdeath confrontation, where Movers roam.
