<a id="s6-16"></a>

## 6.16. Beastmaster BEASTM-LINK

"Trainers whose open hearts and strong wills allow them to capture and control enemy monsters."

Stats: Strength: + 13 Agility: + 01 Vitality: + 08 Magic Power: - 03

**Can equip:** Knives, Whips, Light Helmets, Clothes, Armlets · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus

!Attack !Catch / !Release ---- !Item

10 ABP !Calm 50 ABP !Control 100 ABP Equip Whips 300 ABP !Catch

!Calm 10 ABP Support ability Sets Stop, but NEVER works on creatures with a Magic Beast nature. Unblockable. This is a bugged command, as the intention obviously was to affect Magic Beasts only.

iOS/Android: !Calm works properly now and sets Stop to Magic Beasts.

!Control 60 ABP Support ability Allows the character to control the mind of an opponent, making it fight for you.

Equip whips 160 ABP Support ability Gives the character 37 Strength and 25 Agility and allows the character to equip Whips.

!Catch 460 ABP Support ability Allows the character to catch and subsequently release monsters to remove and attack monsters on the battlefield. For more info on !Catch, see [CATCH-LINK]

The Beastmaster revolves around three major things which distinguishes the Job from any other. First off, there's the Whip. Whips are often fairly powerful, always Back Row OK and either cast an additional spell or attempt to Paralyze the target. This is awesome, though damage output is often sub-par compared to weapons that focus on dealing damage only.

!Control is one of the greatest abilities the game has to offer, and you don't even need to be a Beastmaster to make use of it. Control lets you control a monster. This keeps them from attacking you (which is more useful the stronger the creature is) and lets you pick an attack from their Control attacks and set a target for it. This is most useful for learning elusive Blue spells, but there are monsters that are undefeatable by normal standards if it hadn't been for !Control. The dragons in Exdeath's Castle are a prime example. The Hypno Crown, available to Mages and Clothes Jobs, boosts the success rate of !Control.

!Catch as an ability will likely never venture outside of the Beastmaster's grasp, since it is made so much better by the Kornago Gourd, an Accessory only that Job can equip. The Mime and Freelancer can make use of !Catch though, in specific circumstances. !Catch basically comes down to you hunting down a monster somewhere, going through the trouble of bringing it down to its knees, Catching it (thereby losing its dropped item and Exp. gain), then keeping it around until you can Release it versus a boss for major damage. It's a great cannon, but a pain to keep loaded.

The only thing the Beastmaster does that is not sweet is !Tame, which is just irrelevant. It's bugged; it was supposed to work on Magic Beasts, but now all it does is NOT work on Magic Beasts and work on everything else. It sets Stop for a very small period of time; you cannot properly keep a target subdued with !Calm. Since the Stop spell is already around when you get this ability, and since Stop is so much better in every way (longer duration, affects every kind of target), !Calm is useless.

Position in optimal play: Learn !Control ASAP with one character that is not also your designated Thief, then forget about the Beastmaster until you need !Catch on three occassions. Catch a Kornago to trade for the Kornago Gourd, !Catch an Ironback to defeat Catoblepas in one shot and !Catch a Behemoth in the GBA and iOS/Android games to get past that one NPC that desires one. I could see maybe Catching a Yellow Dragon versus Exdeath, but that's it.
