<a id="s6-17"></a>

## 6.17. Chemist CHEMIST-LINK

"Apothecaries who can mix powerful brews, and gain twice the benefit when drinking potions and ethers."

Stats: Strength: + 02 Agility: + 03 Vitality: + 06 Magic Power: - 04

**Can equip:** Knives, Staves, Hats, Light Helmets, Clothes, Robes, Armlets, Angel · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus, Pharmacology

Robe

!Attack !Drink ---- !Item

15 ABP Pharmacology 30 ABP !Mix 45 ABP !Drink 135 ABP !Recover 405 ABP !Revive

Pharmacology 15 ABP Support ability Doubles the amount Potions, Hi-Potions, Ethers and Ether Dry items heal.

!Mix 45 ABP Action ability Allows the character to mix two items from your inventory to perform a move that can range from healing and defensive options to damaging and debilitating effects. For more info on !Mix, see [MIX-LINK]

!Drink 90 ABP Action ability Allows the character to drink one of the five Drinks you can find and purchase in the game, gaining a variety of positive effects from them. A character with the !Drink ability can only target himself with the Drinks, not other characters. For more info on !Drink, see [DRINK-LINK]

!Recover 225 ABP Action ability Removes Darkness, Poison, Mini, Toad, Silence, Confuse, Paralyze, Sleep and Old status ailments on all characters. Was supposed to cure Petrify, but doesn't.

!Revive 630 ABP Action ability Revives all dead allies with 6.25 % their max HP at no MP cost.

As a Job: The Chemist is probably the best self-buff unit in the game. Any worthwhile battle can be started with setting Haste and doubling HP, even increasing level if you want to. This comes at the cost of poor equipment options, though. Merely Knives and Staves means you can only really boost Syldra and Holy at the end of the game. Massive HP is useful for powerful Holy Breath and Dragon Breath !Mix attack and certain Blue spells such as White Wind, ??? and Self-Destruct as well. The Chemist is best used as a support character; the healing/reviving backbone of a party that just never seems to die.

Taught abilities: Pharmacology is trivial mostly, though 1000 HP healing is great in the second third of the game. !Drink is a great self-buff ability that gives extra oomph to all classes since doubling your HP with a Goliath's Tonic is just great. !Drink also works like a charm on any character with Barehanded, since damage done with Fists is depended on level much more than other weapons' damage is. !Recover and !Revive are two commands you shouldn't need to use; though MT, you can the same thing ST in a skillset so much more versatile.

The kicker, obviously, is !Mix. !Mix is the best ability in the game, really. It can revive and heal better than !White, has better buff possibilities then anything ever and can deal a LOT of damage as well. There are downsides, though. Mixing things is a bother since you need to scroll through your menu all the time. In addition, it consumes items, and the more potent !Mix outcomes uses the three items you'll only find as monster drops, this being the Turtle Shell, the Dragon Fang and the Dark Matter. Especially damage-dealing Mixes will always use these rare items. !Mix doesn't care about elemental boosting, and has but a few attacks which run off Magic Power, so the difference between Jobs you put it on is small. Chemists themselves are great since after a Goliath Tonic, Dark Breath, Dragon Breath and Holy Breath are twice as powerful. !Mix also features what is easily the best way of draining MP from enemies, so it has this on Robe Jobs as well. I suggest learning !Mix with all four characters; it doesn't take long, and the potential benefits are amazing.

Freelancer gains: Chemist's stats are not very good. Pharmacology isn't very hot end-game, but if you for some reason mastered Chemist early, then switched to a Freelancer, 1000 HP Hi-Potions are nice.

Position in optimal play: Learn !Mix with all four characters, then forget about the Chemist.
