<a id="s6-18"></a>

## 6.18. Geomancer GEOMANCER-LINK

"Harnessing the power of their surroundings, they easily avoid pits and floors with damaging effects."

Stats: Strength: + 04 Agility: + 02 Vitality: + 04 Magic Power: + 24

**Can equip:** Knives, Bells, Hats, Robes, Armlets · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus,

Magic Power bonus, Find Pits, Light Step

!Attack !Gaia ---- !Item

25 ABP !Gaia 50 ABP Find Pits 100 ABP Light Step

!Gaia 25 ABP Action ability Can produce up to four different attacks depending on the current background and the level of the user. For more info on !Gaia, see [GAIA-LINK]

Find Pits 75 ABP Support ability Spots loose tiles in advance as opposed to tumbling down into them.

Light Step 175 ABP Support ability Damage done by out-battle traps, spikes and lava are nullified for the entire team. Statuses set are also circumvented.

As a Job: Horrible. HORRIBLE! It's only useful stat is Magic Power, at which it is not as potent as Black Mages and Summoners, more along the lines of Blue and White Mages. It gets a little Strength and Agility boost, both of which mean noting to it. It cannot equip Rods or Staves to boost spells. Its inherent abilities are useless. It gets a theoretical saving grace in the Rune Chime which boosts all elements except for Water, making it a grand !Black and !Summon user. This is late-game, though. Very late-game, when you don't want to use Geomancers anymore.

Taught abilities: !Gaia is great, the others stink. !Gaia is a great ability as long as you realize that it does not boost Magic Power and should be set on Jobs with high Magic Power. !Gaia uses powerful attacks when you first get it, but the attacks used are hardly upgraded. !Gaia is a thing of the past when you get to the later stages of the game. Find Pits and Light Step are both abilities that can be ignored if you have the Float spell present. In other words: get !Gaia, get out.

Freelancer gains: Find Pits and Light Step! Nothing to speak of.

Position in optimal play: Waste of ABP, really. Float makes their support abilities worthless.
