<a id="s6-19"></a>

## 6.19. Bard BARD-LINK

"Musicians whose dulcet tones soothe savage beasts...or kill them."

Stats: Strength: - 08 Agility: + 08 Vitality: - 09 Magic Power: + 11

**Can equip:** Knives, Harps, Hats, Robes, Armlets · **Freelancer gains:** Agility bonus, Magic Power bonus

!Attack !Sing ---- !Item

25 ABP !Hide 50 ABP Equip Harps 100 ABP !Sing

!Hide / !Reveal 25 ABP Action ability Runs away from the fight, becoming untargetable by any attack. While hiding, no other action can be taken but to eventually return to the battlefield with the !Reveal ability.

Equip Harps 75 ABP Support ability Gives the character base Freelancer Agility + 11 and base Freelancer Magic Power + 11 and allows the character to equip Harps.

!Sing 175 ABP Action ability Allows the character to sing all songs learned by the party up to that point. For more info on !Sing, see [SING-LINK]

As a Job: Those stats! So painful. The Bard must have the blues. The worst Magic Power of any Robe Job in the game. The second-lowest Stamina and therefor HP. The Bard takes hits like a dusty old marshmallow, has horrible equipment options. Harps are all useless except for Apollo's Harp, and only then versus Dragons and the Undead. The Bard has got to be the worst Job in the game, the !Sing skillset not counted. Offensively completely inept and unsuited for traditional means of gaining offense (since no Rods and horrible survival rates in the Front Row), the Bard should only be used for learning !Sing in Drakenvale, the Pyramid of Moore and the Great Sea Trench where the Undead are plentiful (thus learning !Sing and mastering the Job) and subsequently discarded to put !Sing on better Jobs.

Taught abilities: !Hide can be abused by having Zombie characters on the battlefield. !Hide your remaining character(s) and have your invincible Zombies clear the field. Since they'll only attack allies, you'll need Reflect Rings on them and weapons that randomly cast spells, such as the Blitz Whip or Death Sickle. The spells will be re-directed to the enemy, and you win! Beyond that, it's really just a gimmick command. I find Equip Harps is actually useful since the Apollo's Harp can deal peerless damage versus Undead and Dragon bosses, and those you target with a Dragon Kiss. Since the Apollo's Harp 'attack' is actually a spell, a Harp-wielding Summoner will be much more proficient with it than a Bard ever will. !Sing is just a great debuff command. I do not much care for the stat- increase Songs outside of the final Exdeath battle, but Requiem and the Stop/Confuse songs are very useful in large stretches of the game. !Sing is great on everything.

Freelancer gains: No stats to speak of, no inherent abilities. Nada

Position in optimal play: Switch to at least one Bard in Drakenvalse, the Pyramid of Moore and the Great Sea Trench. Combine with an action ability that raises Magic Power and watch the Requiem damage fly. Over the course of these three dungeons you should master the Job and learn !Sing. You'll want at least one !Sing user by the end of the game.
