<a id="s6-2"></a>

## 6.2. Monk MONK-LINK

"Masters of hand-to-hand combat who intuitively counterattack."

Stats: Strength: + 26 Agility: + 01 Vitality: + 26 Magic Power: - 23

**Can equip:** Light Helmets, Clothes, Armlets · **Freelancer gains:** Counter, Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus

!Attack !Kick ---- !Item

15 ABP !Focus 30 ABP Barehanded 45 ABP !Chakra 60 ABP Counter 100 ABP HP +10% 150 ABP HP +20% 300 ABP HP +30%

!Focus 15 ABP Action ability Forces the character to wait one turn, only to strike with twice the power of a !Attack command on the next one. !Focus removes the weapon's random spellcasting and special abilities, though Spellblade effects will be in effect and critical hits (including MP-driven ones) will work normally. Weapons that deal damage based on Magic Power, such as Rods and the Blood Sword (not Staves) will work normally, but won't get the damage boost.

Barehanded 45 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Barehanded gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 26 and greatly increases the potential of the Fists weapon (the one you use when you have no weapon equipped).

!Chakra 90 ABP Action ability Heals the user with a 30 base power healing spell and also removes Darkness and Poison. Cannot be used on another target than the caster.

Counter 150 ABP Support ability For every successful physical attack, a character equipped with this ability has a 50 % chance of retaliating with a physical attack. Since counter-attacks are itself never countered, this can be used to circumvent counter-attacks, monster calling and bit setting of various kinds. Certain bosses use physical attacks that cannot be Countered. All weapons work normally when used in a counter-attack, but weapons that randomly perform a command (Thief Knife, Chicken Knife, Gale Bow) will never do so, and the Twin Lance will only attack once.

HP +10% 250 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Increases maximum HP by 10 %

HP +20% 400 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Increases maximum HP by 20 %

HP +30% 700 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Increases maximum HP by 30 %

Other features: !Kick !Kick is the only Action ability in this game that is not actually learned by the Job that uses it, making !Kick Monk-only. It deals multi-target physical damage to the enemy party as if it had delivered a single unarmed blow to all targets. The Barehanded support ability and the Kaiser Knuckle accessory boost the power done by !Kick, but equipped weapons will be completely ignored.

iOS/Android: !Kick ignores Row in this version and but not boosted by Kaiser Knuckles.

As a Job: The Monk is on-and-off the most powerful Clothes Job. The Monk has the highest Strength AND Vitality of the game and is very cheap to equip as he uses no weapons whatsoever. What he lacks on pure Defensive armor he makes up for with a very high amount of Hit Points. !Kick is a nice MT physical attack that in a shocking change of pace can NOT be learned and be put on another class. The inherent support ability of the Monk, Counter, is nothing to scoff at; 50 % of all physical attacks that strike the Monk will be countered with a !Attack command.

Taught abilities: !Focus is not generally useful as it takes twice as long to deal twice as much damage. In addition, no random spellcasting, so it seems you generally lose out. However, !Focus will never let a random command butt into the attack, so the Chicken Knife can be used without fear of fleeing and the Dancing Dagger can be used without seeing Mystery Waltz for the umptienth time. Barehanded is one of the greatest things ever, though. Barehanded is the support ability that turns your otherwise incredibly weak Fists into weapons to be feared. Your Fists themselves become more powerful the higher the character's level is. Barehanded also imbues the character with the Monk's Strength (+ 26) so any character given the Barehanded ability will make as much use out of it as the Monk itself. You needn't even throw your weapons away; Barehanded will make sure you swing that blade with much more fury than before.

Freelancer gains: The Monk is awesome here. The Monk gains the highest Strength and Stamina increase of any Job on the market, and inherent Counter to boot. If you want super-Freelancers, you can't let the Monk slide. Note that the HP bonus abilities need to be equipped.

Position in optimal play: At the very start of the game, where their combination of high HP, Barehanded and Counter make them dominate the battlefield. Obtaining the Ninja Job spells the end of the Monk era until the very last parts of the game, where you will probably want their stats.
