<a id="s6-20"></a>

## 6.20. Dancer DANCER-LINK

"Fighters whose smooth moves confuse enemies, leaving blood on the dance floor."

Stats: Strength: + 05 Agility: + 05 Vitality: - 10 Magic Power: - 05

**Can equip:** Knives, Hats, Light Helmets, Clothes, Robes, Armlets, Man-Eater, · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus

Ribbon, Rainbow Dress, Red Slippers

!Attack !Dance ---- !Item

25 ABP !Flirt 50 ABP !Dance 325 ABP Equip Ribbons

!Flirt 25 ABP Action ability When successfully struck by Flirt, the enemy will replace the attack of the next turn with a text message displaying "Entranced!". The Lamia's Tiara, Rainbow Dress and Red Slippers double the chances of !Flirt working successfully. Never works on creatures with a Heavy nature. The Berserk status trumps "Entranced", and a target struck by both effects will simply attack as if !Flirt hadn't been used.

!Dance 75 ABP Action ability Randomly chooses one out of four dances and executes it. The Lamia's Tiara, Rainbow Dress and Red Slippers double the chances of Sword Dance appearing, and remove the possibility of Tempting Tango altogether. For more info on !Dance, see [DANCE-LINK]

Equip Ribbons 400 ABP Support ability Allows a character to equip the Man-Eater, Ribbon, Rainbow Dress and Red Slippers.

As a Job: What's worse than a Mage without Magic Power? A rogue without Strength or Agility! The Dancer has horrible stats; it's the only Job that loses more stat points than it gains compared to a Freelancer, and it has the game's lowest Stamina and HP. You won't get far with !Attack, and !Dance invites the Dancer to take the Front Row; a risky gambit with so few HP to spare. Without a useful support or action ability, the Dancer will be quite the liability. You can either take advantage of Sword Dance, or work with the fact that the Dancer can boost Earth- and Wind-elemental spells. If you want to go with a Sword Dance set-up, it's advised to get a Lamia's Tiara at the Ronka Ruins and supplement with Equip Bows/Whips/Axes to allow for the Back Row. !Summon and !Blue need no explanation. All fun stuff aside, this is one Job you can forget about in an optimal playthrough.

Taught abilities: !Flirt is a cute little stall option to stop anything not Heavy dead in its tracks for a single round. I like it in a party with Berserkers or other damage-heavy Berserk fighters; stall the enemy, let the others do the damage. !Dance needs equipment that increases Sword Dance likeliness to be effective, and only Mages (who lack the Strength) have those in the Lamia's Tiara. I do find some use with Red and Blue Mages with !Dance, a Lamia's Tiara and a Rune Blade, but that's a rare and late-game option. Equip Ribbons is nice on a Dragoon since the Man-Eater accidentally doubles damage on Jump, opening up a Dragoon with a Ribbon and a Man-Eater as a viable choice. It may also be viable on a Ninja, who can already do a lot of damage due to inherent Dual- Wield, and Black Mages and Summoners who have all the offense they need, as long as you can boost elements.

Freelancer gains: Nothing. Freelancers can already equip Ribbons, which are awesome. !Dance is not very useful if you have more consistent means of dealing damage, and !Flirt pales in comparison to the horrible things you can do to non-Heavy targets in skillsets such as !Blue or !Mix.

Position in optimal play: Useless, forget about it.
