<a id="s6-21"></a>

## 6.21. Necromancer NECROMANCER-LINK

"Dark wizards who are masters of the undead, and have no fear of the Dark Arts."

Stats: Strength: + 4 Agility: + 1 Vitality: + 21 Magic Power: + 29

**Can equip:** Rods, Hats, Robes, Armlets, Chaos Orb (unique effect) · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus, Magic Power

bonus

!Attack !Dark Arts ---- !Item

15 ABP !Oath 30 ABP !Dark Arts (level 1) 45 ABP !Dark Arts (level 2) 60 ABP !Dark Arts (level 3) 100 ABP !Dark Arts (level 4) 200 ABP !Dark Arts (level 5) 300 ABP Undead

!Oath 15 ABP Action ability Calls forth a random demon as if used through the !Release command. For more information, see [OATH-LINK]

!Dark Arts 1 45 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 13 and allows the character to cast level 1 Dark Arts. For more info on !Dark Arts, see [DARKARTS-LINK]

!Dark Arts 2 90 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 17 and allows the character

to cast level 2 Dark Arts.

!Dark Arts 3 150 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 21 and allows the character to cast level 3 Dark Arts.

!Dark Arts 4 250 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 25 and allows the character to cast level 4 Dark Arts.

!Dark Arts 5 450 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Magic Power + 29 and allows the character to cast level 5 Dark Arts.

Undead 750 ABP Support ability Turns the character Undead. Similair to the effect of the Bone Mail, but there are differences. Draining spells except for Drain Touch are inverted, most healing spells and items deal damage instead. On living characters with the Undead support ability, reviving spells and items set HP to a sinlge digit. Character with the Undead support ability with Death set can be revived normally.

As a Job: The Necromancer has the right stats, the right equipment options and the right action ability. Its Magic Power is comparable to that of the Black Mage, which is quite decent. Strength is irrelevant on a Necromancer, but the lack of Agility penalty is nice. It's Stamina that is surprising; comparable to that of a Knight! Ofcourse, healing can be a problem for the Necromancer, so the additional HP is hardly unnecessary. The Necromancer has Drain Touch to restore a bit of its HP, and White Wind can do it. Otherwise, you're stuck 'til the Necromancer bites the dust, at which point you can use revival spells and items. Since the Necromancer is only available at the end of the game, it has to compete with strong Freelancers and Mimes that can Dualcast powerful Summon magic to outdamage the Necromancer while having more HP and not have that pesky Undead property to consider. Still, if you've got no room for !Dualcast, the Dark Arts outmuscle Black and Summon magic in the damage department. Strongly consider one or more !Blue casters to complement the Necromancer; White Wind is truly the best way of keeping the Necromancer alive.

Taught abilities: !Oath is completely useless. Even the most powerful attack (Flare) barely hits 1300 damage which doesn't cut it late-game. Undead can be used to protect a character from Death spells and draining attacks. No enemy in the game will use these attacks with such frequency and potency to require the Undead support ability; it's a good thing it's not inherent on the Freelancer/Mime after mastering the Necromancer. What the Necromancer brings to the table is Dark Arts, simple. It's a great skillset to put on any Job with the ability to equip Rods or even Knives (Hellwind is great).

Freelancer gains: All four stats are boosted by the Necromancer, but none of them any higher than other Jobs. Undead is NOT inherent to the Freelancer after mastering the Necromancer Job. You get nothing here.

Position in optimal play: Too little, too late. Technically useful to combine any weapon that boosts Air-elemental attack with Hellwind for training purposes, but you're pretty much done with the game by this point.
