<a id="s6-22"></a>

## 6.22. Oracle ORACLE-LINK

"Soothsayers who can predict natural disasters - and direct them at foes."

Stats: Strength: - 09 Agility: - 01 Vitality: - 04 Magic Power: + 36

**Can equip:** Staves, Hats, Robes, Armlets · **Freelancer gains:** Magic Power bonus

!Attack !Condemn ---- !Item

20 ABP !Condemn 50 ABP !Predict 150 ABP ABP Up 300 ABP Read Ahead

!Condemn 20 ABP Action ability Ten spells from the White and Black school can be cast for no MP cost, but with a timer that depends on the Oracle Job level of the caster. Doesn't work on Heavy targets. For more info on !Condemn, see [CONDEMN-LINK]

!Predict 70 ABP Action ability Randomly does stuff depending on the caster's last digit of MP and the target's last digit of HP. For more info on !Predict, see [PREDICT-LINK]

ABP Up 220 ABP Support ability Gives the character 150 % normal ABP gained after a battle.

Read Ahead 520 ABP Support ability Sharply decreases random encounter rate.

As a Job: The Oracle has the highest Magical damage output in the game! Sadly, this feature is immediately gimped by the fact it needs another action ability to really damage anything. Also, it cannot equip Rods or Bells. It has really crappy stats on the physical side but all you really need to do is give the Oracle !White 6 (Holy) or !Summon 5 (Bahamut/Leviathan) and you won't regret using one.

Taught abilities: !Condemn is just REALLY crappy. It doesn't take any MP, never misses and can be used regardless of Silence, Toad or Reflect on the target. On the other hand, even the fastest timer of 10 increments is too slow. The only mildly useful feature is Doom, which kills when the timer reaches 0. It's like a Death Potion, only it sucks. Theoretically best used on a Summoner with the Magus Rod, but in practice best used not at all. Read Ahead is nice if you want to explore dungeons as unhindered as possible; it's more a gameplay feature than a strategic support ability, much like Sprint and Lure.

!Predict deserves its own paragraph. It's only useful in the longer battles, as it won't execute at all in shorter battles. You can really only use a 'safe' prediction 40 % of the time and its power is quite random. The sheer ingenuity of the ability intrigues me, as well as the fact you really need to have no friends at all to learn how to use this command. I feel this ability stinks, but it's fun to toy around with it. If you must use it, it's best used on a character with a broad selection of elemental-boosts, so those with Rods or the Rune Chime will work. Note that damage comes from level only, so Magic Power is irrelevant; a Monk could do it as effectively as an Oracle.

Freelancer gains: The highest Magic score in the game; Freelancers who want all the high stats will want to master this.

Position in optimal play: Train your mages until you master this Job. The action abilities are borderline useless, but Read Ahead makes the Sealed Temple much more bearable.
