<a id="s6-23"></a>

## 6.23. Cannoneer CANNONEER-LINK

"Tinkerers with the know-how to combine items into weapons both beautiful and destructive"

Stats: Strength: + 05 Agility: + 05 Vitality: - 10 Magic Power: - 05

**Can equip:** Knives, Swords, Shields, Hats, Light Helmets, Clothes, Robes, · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus

Armlets

!Attack !Open Fire ---- !Item

50 ABP !Open Fire 150 ABP Exp Up 300 ABP !Combine

!Open Fire 50 ABP Action ability Performs a non-elemental, unblockable attack against a single target that will attempt to set a random status ailments (Darkness, Poison, Confuse or Death). For more info on !Open Fire, check [OPENFIRE-LINK].

Exp Up 200 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Increases the amount of Experience Points gained by the character with Exp Up set by 50%.

!Combine 500 ABP Action ability Allows the character to combine a Buckshot, Blastshot or Blitzshot item with another consumable to perform a multi-target attack which can various elemental, status-inducing or miscellaneous properties. For more information on !Combine, check [COMBINE-LINK].

As a Job: The Cannoneer is quite decent. His main selling point as a Job is !Open Fire, which does damage comparable to a normal Attack coming from a Job that was meant to use !Attack. This situation gives the Cannoneer the added bonus of being able to take the Back Row and equip weapons that he doesn't need to attack with but otherwise help him out, such as the Main Gauche. In addition, the random status ailments will prove to be useful, and !Open Fire is even unblockable, so there's that bonus as well. The Cannoneer does, however, lack the true Oomph of other Jobs, and its damage output is difficult to increase.

Taught abilities: !Open Fire is a great action ability for Thieves, Bards and Dancers; it's a Back Row OK damage option that acts independent of Strength or Magic Power and is well-suited for support of less offensively-inclined Jobs. Exp Up shouldn't really see much use; level-grinding isn't very effective in this game, partly due to your ability to raise Level in-battle. If you must have a Master File with level 99 characters, this ability will be a godsend to you. The real gem of the Job is obviously !Combine; it's fairly damaging, resources aren't generally an issue and it provides the party with a way to set several status ailments without taking normal magical hit algorithms in account. Like !Open Fire, !Combine uses neither Strength nor Magic Power and is thus equally effective regardless of stats; the elemental attacks are affected by elemental boosts though, so !Combine is more effective on those characters with Rods, Staves or the Rune Chime.

Freelancer gains: The stats aren't interesting, but !Combine is a solid option even for Freelancers in some battles. Mastering the Cannoneer won't be too much of a chore.

Position in optimal play: !Combine is a great ability to deal 3000 damage to all targets, and the flat 75% to inflict status ailments is great versus Halicarnassus (Mini) Neo Exdeath (Slow) and Enuo (Slow) whose level and Magic Evasion make sure other means of setting the ailment or status will likely fail. One character mastering the Cannoneer Job is enough.
