<a id="s6-24"></a>

## 6.24. Gladiator GLADIATOR-LINK

"Skilled warriors who can master any blade."

Stats: Strength: + 26 Agility: + 14 Vitality: + 3 Magic Power: - 14

**Can equip:** Knives, Swords, Knightswords, Lances, Axes, Bows, Shields, · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus

Heavy Helmets, Light Helmets, Heavy Armor, Clothes, Guantlets

!Attack !Finisher ---- !Item

30 ABP Lure 70 ABP !Finisher 150 ABP Long Range 450 ABP !Bladeblitz

Lure 30 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Sharply increases random encounter rate.

!Finisher 100 ABP Action ability Performs either a 9999-damage elemental attack of the character's Crystal spirit, inflicts a Critical Hit with the equipped weapon if possible, or fails. The odds of these three possibilities depend on the Gladiator Job level obtained by the user. For more info on !Finisher, see [FINISHER-LINK].

Long Range 250 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Allows the character to deal full damage with the equipped weapon(s) from the Back Row, regardless of the weapon.

!Bladeblitz 700 ABP Action ability Performs a physical attack with the equipped weapon on all enemy targets. All strikes are affected by target's Evasion and Row modifier; the damage done is only 75 % of !Attack's damage. Row modifiers are ignored if the weapon used ignores Row modifiers. Random spellcasting and replacement functions will be ignored, though all versions of critical hits may appear normally. MP-driven criticals will subtract MP once for every target struck. Elemental properties are applied as they would normally be. The Lilith Rod will apply the "Entranced!" effect to all non-Heavy targets it strikes. !Bladeblitz cannot work with weapons that cast spells, such as Harps and the Wonder Wand.

As a Job: The Gladiator certainly is unique; it has the highest Strength of all Heavy Armor Jobs, and ties with the Monk for game's highest Strength altogether. Impressive Agility as well, but the Gladiator has crap Stamina (and thus HP) for a Heavy Armor Job and is therefor not well suited to take hits, especially magical ones as he has neither the HP nor the Magic Defense to survive them well. The Gladiator's got the most impressive !Attack command of the game; he's able to equip a wide variety of weapons which allows him to exploit nature weaknesses of Dragons, Magic Beasts and Aevis creatures whenever he encounters them. In addition, he's a great character to put !Aim or !Jump on when giving the relevant weapon; he's a more powerful archer than the Ranger, and a better Jumper than the Dragoon. Giving the Gladiator either a Bow with !Aim or a Lance with !Jump also boosts his survivability, since he becomes Back Row OK. The Aegis Shield is a supreme choice for the Gladiator as it'll cover his big weakness, this being magical attacks.

!Finisher is a gamble that is not always well evaluated; Courante's FAQ, for instance, advocates !Finisher against everything as soon as you get it. 9999 damage regardless! The odds of this attack are 50 % at best though, and when adequately prepared and normally leveled, it is often easy to match the average damage output as well as maintain a level of certainty. But it's hard to go wrong with !Finisher, as it'll deal that much coveted 9999 damage elemental attack every now and again, and it looks awesome.

Taught abilities: Lure is a game feature, useful for grinding or when you're searching out a rare encounter or something. I have trouble finding a good use for Long Range; the only Jobs that necessarily holds the Front Row and would do well to go to the back are the Thief, Ninja and Dancer, which may as well learn !Summon 5, !Open Fire or Equip Whips/Equip Bows by the time you actually get the Gladiator. Now, !Finisher obviously works as well on any Job as it does on the Freelancer, and is a great option to give Thieves, Bards, Chemists and Dancers a shot at some really decent damage. !Finisher works best when Gladiator is mastered, obviously. !Bladeblitz isn't too hot; it's better to take out targets one a time with a strong elemental attack or strategic status ailment; throwing damage around is for Summoners, not physical attackers. Break Spellblade + !Bladeblitz is a fun combo though.

Freelancer gains: If you want perfect stats on your Freelancer you'll have to master Monk anyway, so that perfect Strength isn't an issue. I wouldn't put !Finisher on a Freelancer with the existence of !Spellblade and/or !Rapid Fire either, and there are no inherent abilities the Freelancer assumes from the Gladiator. Useless to master, but fun to use.

Position in optimal play: None, really.
