<a id="s6-25"></a>

## 6.25. Mime MIME-LINK

"Skilled mimics who can copy allies' actions perfectly"

**Strength:** maximum + 26, Monk/Gladiator · **Agility:** maximum + 16, Thief · **Vitality:** maximum + 26, Monk · **Magic Power:** maximum + 36, Oracle

Stats:

**Can equip:** Knives, Rods, Staves, Shields, Heavy Armor, Clothes, Robes,

Moonring Blade, Rising Sun, Twin Lance, Angel Robe, Thief's Gloves

**Can possess these inherent qualities:** Cover, Barehanded, Counter, Find

Passages, Sprint, Vigilance, Learning, Magic Shell, First Strike Dual-Wield, Light Step, Shiradori, Pharmacology

```
!Mimic
 ----
 ----
 ----
```

999 ABP !Mimic

!Mimic 999 ABP Action ability Copies last ally's move without expanding resources.

As a Job: The Mime is neither a 'normal' Job nor like the Freelancer. It's really confusing if you're lacking in brainsmarts. The Mime shares the Freelancer's ability to take the best of all Jobs; when you mastered the Monk Job, the Mime Job will have its good stats and inherent abilities, just as the Freelancer will. This gives the Mime potentially awesome stats and all the nice inherent abilities you grew to love during the rest of the game. It is somewhat 'gimped' compared to the Freelancer in equipment options, but since it can equip Rods, Staves and Shields, the Mime has all equipment a spellcaster could ever want. In addition to great equipment options (it really only misses the Rune Chime), it has THREE ability slots to fill rather than two; !Attack and !Item will be added as options as soon as you get access to the Mime Job, and you get to choose three abilities. Among the options here are !Dualcast and two schools of magic. The Mime is the best spellcasting Job in the game, hands down.

Taught abilities: Sucks. !Mimic is nice on occasion; you could have a character perform an expensive !Dualcast (double Bahamut or double Meteor), then using !Mimic on all until whatever bothered you is dead, but that's a boring, inflexible and cheap tactics that isn't going to make the game fun anytime soon. Beyond 'hit the ultra-kill button again without using MP', !Mimic isn't too hot.

!Mimic: - Mimics (Defend) - Mimics !Call by releasing a random Summon Beast, not the same one - Mimics !Animals by conjuring a random woodland friend - Mimics !Jump attacks when the Jump is made; a landing isn't considered something to Mimic - Mimics !Zeninage by using up Gil just like using the command itself - Mimics !Item, !Mix, !Throw and !Combine without using any further items - Mimics counterattacks due to Counter and Magic Barrier - picks the same target when possible, but retargets if the mimicked target is not available anymore - targets self when the mimicked attack automatically targets self (such as !Guard, !Spellblade, etc.)

Freelancer gains: There's the thing, right. Nothing, as the Mime itself gains stuff from other Jobs.

Position in optimal play: None. Less experienced players often pick a Mime to duplicate dual Bahamut conjuring without the MP cost. It is inelegant and boring.
