<a id="s6-26"></a>

## 6.26. Freelancer FREELANCER-LINK

"Unspecialized fighters who can equip any armor or weapon."

**Strength:** 24 (maximum 50, Monk / Gladiator) · **Agility:** 24 (maximum 40, Thief) · **Vitality:** 24 (maximum 50, Monk) · **Magic Power:** 24 (maximum 60, Oracle)

Stats:

Can equip:

**Can possess these inherent qualities:** Cover, Barehanded, Counter,

Find Passages, Sprint, Vigilance, Learning, Magic Shell, First Strike, Dual-Wield, Light Step, Shiradori, Pharmacology

```
!Attack
 ----
 ----
!Item
```

The Freelancer gains positive stat boosts from Mastered Jobs, as well as most inherent abilities to those Jobs. It can also combine any two abilities in the game, making it capable of mimicking every action (except !Kick) there is.

The Freelancer has lowish average stats across the board, but since abilities grant stats in this game, it can do everything. Basically, it's a better X than X itself, in every case. A Freelancer with Barehanded is a better Monk than a Monk due to equipment options. A Freelancer with !Black 6 is a better caster than a Black Mage, due to equipment options as well as superior Magic Power! When you've mastered Monk, Thief and Summoner and have equipped a Ribbon, your stats will be nicely inflated.

As far as equipment goes, the Freelancer can equip anything. This includes the Ribbon and Aegis Shield, which are the two best defensive pieces of equipment in the game. Fighters can equip any weapon, so they can swap between those that favor a particular enemy type (Dragon's Whisker, Beast Killer, Man-Eater) in-battle. Mages can equip the Rune Chime, which has the broadest array of elemental boosts in the game.

Since the Freelancer gets almost all inherent support abilities of other Jobs, it'll be quite useful. The ones that stand out most are Vigilance and First Strike (you'll be perfectly set up every battle), Counter and Shiradori to work with physical attacks and Dual-Wield for the option to swap away a Shield for another weapon, whether it is for extra stat boosts or just the power of it.

The Freelancer has no ABP-related growth. Instead, you 'master' the Freelancer Job as soon as you have mastered all other available Jobs. Mastering the Freelancer will get you nothing but three stars over the Freelancer sprite.

Position in optimal play: You switch to this Job in the end, when you are satisfied with your learned abilities. You give Ribbons and Aegis Shields to them, and either powerful swords or Rune Chimes. Done! I would advise that prior to entering the Sealed Temple, you turn all characters into Freelancers. Two Warriors and two Mages, looking a lot like this:

Warrior: Job level: ABP cost: Mastered Monk 700 ABP Mastered Thief 635 ABP Mastered Ninja 690 ABP Mastered Ranger 600 ABP !Spellblade 5 280 ABP !Blue 100 ABP !Control 60 ABP !Mix 45 ABP Mastered Cannoneer 500 ABP

(Master Mystic Knight 400 ABP) (Master Blue Mage 250 ABP)

**Total:** 3610 ABP

Total (training for !Dualcast): 4260 ABP

Mage: Master Monk 700 ABP Master Thief 635 ABP !White 6 280 ABP !Black 6 280 ABP !Time 6 280 ABP !Summon 5 250 ABP !Blue 100 ABP !Mix 45 ABP Master Bard 175 ABP Master Oracle 520 ABP

(!Dualcast 1159 ABP)

**Total:** 3265 ABP

Total (training for !Dualcast): 4424 ABP

Shooting for !Dualcast is the big Do or Do Not. Looking at these builds, you will have to bridge a total of about 800 ABP. This best place to collect ABP is the last floor of the Rift, just prior to your last fight with Exdeath, where there is a Save Point and the encounters are:

35 % Crystelle, Necromancer, Mindflayer 30 ABP 3800 Gil 35 % Gorgimera, King Behemoth 29 ABP 1900 Gil 23 % Belphegor, Crystelle x2, Mindflayer 28 ABP 5750 Gil 6 % Mover x3 199 ABP 150000 Gil You will have to fight an average of twenty battles here to gain the 800 ABP you need, provided you started training Red Mages as soon as they were done with the other Jobs. This will give you an average of 425,000 Gil, which can be spent on additional Flame Rings, Coral Rings, Angel Rings and Hermes Sandals you may lack up 'til this point.
