<a id="s6-3"></a>

## 6.3. Thief THIEF-LINK

"Expert bandits who espy secret passages and foil back attacks. They can sprint by holding the B Button."

Stats: Strength: + 01 Agility: + 16 Vitality: + 02 Magic Power: - 06

**Can equip:** Knives, Light Helmets, Clothes, Armlets, Moonring Blade, Rising Sun, · **Freelancer gains:** Find Passages, Sprint, Vigilance, Artful Dodger,

Twin Lance, Thief's Gloves Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus

!Attack !Steal ---- !Item

10 ABP Find Passages 20 ABP !Flee 30 ABP Sprint 50 ABP !Steal 75 ABP Vigilance 150 ABP !Mug 300 ABP Artful dodger

Find Passages 10 ABP Support ability There are hidden passages in walls, and this ability allows you to see them clearly. There are also invisible stepping tiles at some location which appear to fall under this catagory.

!Flee 30 ABP Action ability This ability allows you to escape immediately from any battle you can escape from. It does simply count as having run away, so the Brave Blade and the Chicken Knife are affected.

Sprint 60 ABP Support ability Allows you to run in dungeons. It is needed to get a single chest in this game, and it's useful in timed situations. Also, once you're used to running and you stop doing it, your brain feels like it's going to explode. Arguably the only support ability to actually make your characters weaker as as opposed to your sanity, as they won't benefit from it.

iOS/Android: Sprint now works on the Overworld map. It also helps when you travel by ship, airship, submarine, Chocobo and Wind Drake.

!Steal 110 ABP Action ability Attempts to steal an opponent's item.

Vigilance 185 ABP Support ability Turns any Back Attacks you might've otherwise encountered into normal situations, even fixed Back Attacks.

!Mug 335 ABP Action ability Attacks and steals in a single attack. When using !Mug, no weapon will ever have a special effect or cast an additional spell.

Artful Dodger 635 ABP Support ability Gives the character an Agility of base Freelancer +16.

As a Job: Boy, the Thief really sucks as a melee unit. Thankfully, that is not what the Thief is about. The Thief has really poor Strength for a Clothes Job, and the bad Stamina doesn't help his case. If you want to make a Thief a damage dealer or capable healer, make sure you give him an ability that both gives him offensive options and raises the proper stat for it: Barehanded and any spellcasting skillset comes to mind. You will, however, return to the Thief every now and then as even though he can pass !Steal on to other Jobs, those Jobs won't be able to equip the Thief's Gloves. If you want to steal, you'll want a Thief, no exceptions.

Taught abilities: The Thief teaches you how to be a Thief, but poorer. !Steal and !Mug's item producing qualities won't work as well without a pair of Thief's Gloves. Vigilance can be a vital support ability when you want to avoid casualties of any kind; physical hitters obtaining a Back Attack can pound mages into the ground faster than you can blink. Artful Dodger can be used to let Berserkers take the first turn, but that's about it.

Freelancer gains: There is some use to sticking to the Thief past some boss fights with rare items, though! The Thief has the highest Agility in the game, meaning that you'll want to master it for Freelancer stat optimizing. Vigilance and Sprint certainly don't hurt; a Back Attack can be very painful. Freelancers with the !Steal ability are better Thieves than Thieves, since stats are better.

Position in optimal play: There are many great rare steals in this game, but ultimately you can safely ignore most of them except for the Reflect Mages'/Carbuncle's Reflect Rings, Oiseaurare's Mirage Vests and probably rare Angel Rings from Druids and Baldanders unless you want to farm Gil. Another exception is the Genji equpiment set obtainable from the many Gilgamesh encounters. Thieves are great when escaping from Karnak Castle due to the many Elixirs and rare Gaia Gears. In areas with powerful monsters such as the Sea Floor Cave, the dragons in Exdeath's Castle, Istory Falls and the Dimension Castle. Finally, a quick Thief with !Flee helps in obtaining Jackanapes' treasures early. For most of the game you can designate a single character as the Thief and learn up 'til Vigilance, but at the end of the game you will want to master Thief with all four characters for that Agility bonus.
