<a id="s6-4"></a>

## 6.4. Dragoon DRAGOON-LINK

"Dragon knights who specialize in jumping and lance attacks."

Stats: Strength: + 18 Agility: + 05 Vitality: + 15 Magic Power: - 12

**Can equip:** Knives, Lances, Shields, Heavy Helmets, Clothes, Heavy Armor, · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus

Gauntlets

!Attack !Jump ---- !Item

50 ABP !Jump 150 ABP !Lance 400 ABP Equip Lances

!Jump 50 ABP Action ability Allows the character to use a Jump attack, causing it be jump into the air and remain off-screen for a period of time about equivalent of a turn. It will then land with an unblockable physical attack that's like an !Attack, only Row has no effect, special effects and additional magic spells won't be used. Critical hits (including MP-driven "critical hits" and auto-critical hits due to Nature exploitation) may occur at normal odds. In addition, Spears (including the Twin Lance), the Man-Eater and the Judgment Staff and the Staff of Light (due to a bug) will deal double damage. Spellblade effects will be applied through !Jump. Weapons that deal no damage and instead produce a spell (Harps, Wonder Wand, Healing Staff, etc.) will do nothing in tandem with !Jump. Rods may miss even with !Jump; Lilith Rods will apply their special effects, but may also miss. The attack Interceptor Rocket is specifically designed to stop Jump attacks.

iOS/Android: !Jump takes only 10 ABP to learn, and also allows double damage with the Twin Lance as well as allowing both hits to land.

!Lance 200 ABP Action ability This ability is an unblockable magical attack that drains both HP and MP from a single target.

Equip Lances 600 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Gives the character base Freelancer Strength +18, and allows the character to equip Lances. While the Twin Lance is technically a Lance, it doesn't fall under this catagory, nor does the Man-Eater (you might've been confused by their illogical Jump bonus).

As a Job: The Dragoon is, more than any other Job, good at surviving. It takes fewer hits then the others due to !Jump, and it shares its impressive armor options with fellow heavy armor Jobs. Other heavy armor Jobs can take Two-Handed to double damage, the Dragoon must Jump, which means that the Dragoon will be away for half of the battle and the battle will be longer. Neither of these things bode well for more frail units. I can give the best impression by calling the Dragoon the only egoistical heavy armor Job there is. If this is a good trait to have for a meatshield is something you must decide for yourself. I find the best Dragoons to be those that defy the very thing that makes them Dragoon and start to Dual-Wield Lances on the ground or cast Blue or Summon spells with the aid of Air Knives.

Taught abilities: Lances are just inferior choices to Knightswords (which are powerful) and Katanas (which have critical hit possibilities), so the only reason to equip them is !Jump. Equip Lances on any Job inherently lacks !Jump, so it's useless on anything but a Dragoon-themed Freelancer. !Jump is useless without Lances, so the same generally goes for that. The two classes that can benefit from !Jump are the Gladiator (the only other Job that can wield a Lance) and technically the Dancer with a Man-Eater, but that combo works better with the Dragoon as a base Job and the Equip Ribbon ability. The Twin Lance used by Thieves, Ninjas and Mines also deals double damage through !Jump, but since it'll hit only once as opposed to twice through !Jump, it's kind of a moot point. !Lance is a bit useful, I guess, on mages. !Mix replenishes MP as well though, and has infinite amounts of miscellaneous options as a side dish.

Freelancer gains: The Dragoon has inferior stats to other Jobs and no inherent ability is passed on. You can safely ignore the Dragoon if you want to end up as a Freelancer.

Position in optimal play: Nowhere.

iOS/Android: You will want to learn !Jump with the meager 10 ABP that takes for all potential Thieves and Ninjas to pair with Twin Lances.
