<a id="s6-5"></a>

## 6.5. Ninja NINJA-LINK

"Stealthy fighters who excel at surprising enemies and can wield two weapons at once."

Stats: Strength: + 15 Agility: + 14 Vitality: + 03 Magic Power: - 10

**Can equip:** Knives, Ninja Knives, Light Helmets, Clothes, Armlets, Moonring · **Freelancer gains:** First Strike, Dual-Wield, Strength bonus, Agility bonus,

Blade, Rising Sun, Twin Lance Vitality bonus

!Attack !Throw ---- !Item

10 ABP !Smoke 30 ABP !Image 50 ABP First Strike 150 ABP !Throw 450 ABP Dual-Wield

!Smoke 10 ABP Action ability This ability allows you to escape immediately from any battle you can escape from. It does simply count as having run away, so the Brave Blade and the Chickenknife are affected.

!Image 40 ABP Action ability Sets Image (2), causing the character to avoid two physical hits without fail.

First Strike 90 ABP Support ability Doubles the chances of running into a Preemptive strike.

!Throw 240 ABP Action ability Opens up a menu which allows you to Throw a large array of weapons. Ninja Scrolls depends on Magic Power, thrown weapons (including Throw-only weapons such as Ash, Shuriken and Ninja Stars) are simply an incredibly powerful physical strike that depends on Level, Strength and Agility. When an item is thrown, it will be gone from you inventory. Thrown weapons ignore all aspects of the weapon throw, as well as Row and element. !Throw is also unblockable. For more info on !Throw, see [THROW-LINK]

Dual-Wield 690 ABP Support ability The character is able to wield a weapon in each hand. Obviously this doesn't work with Two-Handed weapons, such as Bows and Harps.

As a Job: I want you to answer this serious question. Have you ever seen a ninja in any video game that wasn't better at everything than the other characters? The Ninja as a Job has it all. Decent Strength, great Agility and inherent First Strike and Dual-Wield. The damage potential is already there, you needn't really stick anything on there to make it work. Equip (weapon) can be a great support ability since Knives aren't the greatest thing, but that's just overkill. A magic skillset to boost the Ninja's Magic Power to mage levels is also incredibly effective to make Scrolls very powerful. In this scenario, it's a damn shame that the Ninja has no way of boosting the elements.

Taught abilities: !Throw is divided in the physical apartment and the magical one. The Ninja is THE best physical thrower as no Job combines Strength and Agility quite like him (Ranger and Mystic Knight come darn close). However, the truly deadly potential of !Throw lies in its Scrolls. A Lightning Scroll is about 2.5 as powerful as Ramuh, but damage generally comes out about equal due to the Ninja's only crappy stat, Magic Power. Stick !Throw on a Mage, equip an elemental Rod of your choosing (Fire or Lightning) and watch the sickening amounts of damage fly.

!Image has potential it can hardly live up to. With a party full of !Image users, you can effectively make your entire party immune to physical attacks. However, it comes at the great cost of an ability slot so that probably won't be the case. In addition, while self-applied Image is great, it's not good enough to, again, warrant an entire slot. Had it been a Scroll to Throw it would've made the perfect preparation attack, but as it stands you either need to find a physical-only boss or don't bother.

Dual-Wield is double damage at the cost of a shield, like Two-Handed. The big difference is that this works with any weapon (unless it requires two hands). On Thieves, Dragoons, Beastmasters and Dancers, this can greatly improve their damage output. Actually Dual-Wield and Two-Handed are very similar. When both can be used, Dual-Wield is more reliable (as it make two Hit Rate checks and can hit with either) as Two-Handed is slightly more powerful most of the time since the most powerful weapon is often unique (meaning the other hands needs to 'settle' for a less powerful one).

Freelancer gains: Awesome! First Strike is a good thing and the Ninja gives a very decent Agility boost, but Dual-Wield is where it's at. It is a required component for the most powerful physical combo in the game and is just great all around.

Position in optimal play: Ninjas are the go-to Job for non-mages. As soon as you have learned both Barehanded and !Blue, you can choose at any time to have a physical Ninja or one who has greatly boosted Scrolls and an unblockable Goblin Punch to offer. You will spend a lot of time with Ninjas, and you won't hate it. Dual-Wield is essential for some late-game monsters such as Omega and several GBA-only opponents.
