<a id="s6-6"></a>

## 6.6. Samurai SAMURAI-LINK

"Master swordsmen whose keen reflexes allow them to intercept and deflect enemy attacks."

Stats: Strength: + 19 Agility: + 02 Vitality: + 19 Magic Power: - 12

**Can equip:** Knives, Katanas, Shields, Heavy Helmets, Clothes, Heavy Armor, · **Freelancer gains:** Shiradori, Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus

Gauntlets

!Attack !Zeninage ---- !Item

10 ABP !Mineuchi 30 ABP !Zeninage 60 ABP Shiradori 180 ABP Equip Katanas 540 ABP !Iainuki

!Mineuchi 10 ABP Action ability Deals normal !Attack damage, disregard special effects and doesn't allow for special effects. It also does *not* dispel Controlled, Confuse and Sleep status, making it the only physical attack that is able to circumvent this. It is an improperly coded command that does not function like it should.

iOS/Android: !Mineuchi functions properly in this game. It deals 50% !Attack damage and sets Paralyze, trading power for stopping attacks. Since Paralyze only lasts for a significant time on non-Heavy targets and !Mineuchi takes up an entire ability slot that could've been filled with !Blue, !Summon or a support ability that increases physical damage, I can't think of a situation where !Mineuchi is more helpful than other options. Verdict: blows.

!Zeninage 40 ABP Action ability !Zeninage is an INCREDIBLY powerful physical attack. I mean, really. It far surpasses anything but the very late-game vintage set-ups, is non-elemental and unblockable. The only downside is how it costs you money. It's (50 * level * enemies attacked). There are no battles in this game that are not equally easily won without spending a hefty sum, so I never use it. It's often used versus Neo Exdeath, though, since Gil is no longer an issue at that point and physical characters lack any other means of dealing massive amounts of MT damage.

Shiradori 100 ABP Support ability Before 'normal' Hit Rate calculations begin, the character has a 25 % chance of dodging the attack anyway when this ability is equipped.

Equip Katanas 280 ABP Support ability Gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 19 and allows them to equip Katanas.

!Iainuki 820 ABP Action ability This unique attack is a true gamble. It's a multi-target attack that attempts to kill all targets immediately. It has a 85 % Hit Rate but also takes into account the level factor all magical attacks do. It will never work on Heavy targets.

As a Job: The Samurai wields the most impressive weapon of all. His MIND. Just kidding, he wields Katanas. The Katana the normal Sword's damage formula and is compatible with Two-Handed, but aside of all that Katanas simply tend to be strong. The best thing they've got going is the fact they have critical hit rates. This makes the Samurai the Heavy Armor Job with the best average damage output. It's really a damn shame Katanas and !Spellblade don't go together. The Samurai has inherent Shiradori and thus avoid more physical attacks than other Jobs. I don't even consider !Zeninage as it's this game auto-win button. His stats are decent. Strength a bit below the Knight and Berserker, but his weapon selection make him the more dangerous one anyway. The Wind Slash Katana boosts Aera for the short time the Samurai does not yet have the option to wield an Air Knife.

Taught abilities:

!Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin. !Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin. !Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin. !Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin. !Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin. !Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin. !Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin. !Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin. !Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin. !Zeninage is not an ability, it is a sin.

!Mineuchi is bugged and useless. !Iainuki is slow, unpredictable death versus many honorless opponents. These are useless, and there are no other abilities learned. None that are not a sin, I mean. Unless you want to use !Zeninage, there is little reason to progress as a Samurai for the duraton of the game. Equip Katanas might be fun on a Ninja, but than again, almost everything is.

Freelancer gains: Inherent Shiradori is nothing to scoff at, but that's about it. There is no stat that the Samurai improves better than other heavy armor Jobs, so for a Freelancer the Samurai offers little but the action abilities it learns.

Position in optimal play: Non-existent; time spent as a Samurai is generally wasted ABP. When the Masamune makes an appearance, the Samurai can be used to do things before the monster has had a chance to move. This will probably be fleeing or setting up a certain buff or debuff. With Hermes Sandals present, this is never actually necessary.
