<a id="s6-7"></a>

## 6.7. Berserker BERSERKER-LINK

"Always berserk in battle, these feral warriors sacrifice commands to gain attack strength and power."

Stats: Strength: + 21 Agility: - 09 Vitality: + 25 Magic Power: - 23

**Can equip:** Axes, Hammers, Shields, Heavy Helmets, Clothes, Heavy Armor, · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Vitality bonus

Gauntlets

(no commands, acts automatically)

100 ABP Berserk 400 ABP Equip Axes

Berserk 100 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Sets the Berserk status in-battle. This makes the character uncontrollable but increases physical damage done by 50 %. This also makes the character immune to Confuse. The character does not start acting until it would normally be able to select an attack.

iOS/Android: Due to the improved ATB system, those with the Berserk ability can act independent of the rest of the team. In addition, a change has been made to the Berserk status. Berserked character will no longer attack a random target, but will attack monsters in a set order. It seems they will attack Front Row targets first. This is somewhat of a buff to the Berserker class and characters with Berserk, since attacking Back Row targets halves damage done with most weapons.

Equip Axes 500 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 21 and, don't be fooled, it DOES allows the character to equip both Axes AND Hammers.

As a Job: The Berserker shines early in the game. With great amounts of HP and great Strength, the Berserker can deliver extreme amounts of damage when given the Two-Handed ability. Remember, no Action ability will actually work on the Berserker (outside of giving stat boosts). The Death Sickle which is obtained late in the first world is an extremely potent weapon. Combining the Gaia Hammer with an action ability that raises Magic Power is also extremely potent, and since it's Back Row OK will never suffer from row penalties. When the worlds change, you start to gain more and more control over your battle situation and both you and the opponents can create more and more special effects on the battlefield. The Berserker is too easily fazed; its great damage output can now be equalled by other (mainly magical) Jobs and the lack of control becomes an extreme hindrance.

Taught abilities: Berserk is a useful ability if you favor defense over offense, as opposed to Dual-Wield and Two-Handed, it increases damage without decreasing defense. The loss of control is something you'll have to keep in mind, though. Since you'll often curse at your Berserked unit for attacking a unit in the Back Row for lesser damage, Berserk is best set when facing single targets or when wielding weapons that deal the same amount of damage from (and to) the Back Row. Axes and Hammers are unique weapons as they only take 25 % of the target's Defense into account, making them able to cut through high-Defense enemies and deliver more damage on the whole; they're not very impressive otherwise since they do no deliver Critical Hits or work with Spellblade, and equip Axes is therefor a poor ability to set. A fun exception is the Rune Axe; a mage with with the Equip Axes support ability will deal tremendous amounts of damage with the Rune Axe. Just make sure your axe-wielding magician doesn't quickly die in the Front Row.

Freelancer gains: It is a GOOD thing the Freelancer doesn't pick up auto-Berserk, as that would make mastering the Berserker a liability. As for stats, the Berserker gives great Strength and Stamina, but not as good as the Monk. Nothing to see here, is what I'm saying. Mastering the Berserker is a fast way of gaining a lot of Strength and Vitality, and some don't want to have Counter on their end-game characters. If you don't want to spend time to master the Monk class and gain the Counter ability in the process, spending some time with the Berserker in, say, the Phoenix Tower may be what you want.

Position in optimal play: If you don't want to master Monk with all characters, master the Berserker with the five Magic Pots in the Phoenix Tower. You won't have to use this animalistic maniac for more than five battles.
