<a id="s6-8"></a>

## 6.8. Ranger RANGER-LINK

"Nature-loving archers who can call on local wildlife for aid."

Stats: Strength: + 16 Agility: + 12 Vitality: + 01 Magic Power: - 05

**Can equip:** Knives, Bows, Light Helmets, Clothes, Armlets · **Freelancer gains:** Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus

!Attack !Aim ---- !Item

15 ABP !Animals 45 ABP !Aim 135 ABP Equip Bows 405 ABP !Rapid Fire

!Animals 15 ABP Action ability Calls forth a random woodland friend to aid you in battle. For more info on !Animals, see [ANIMALS-LINK]

!Aim 60 ABP Action ability Performs a !Attack command, but unblockable. Rods may still miss. Cannot be used when affected by the Darkness status ailment.

Equip Bows 195 ABP Support ability (needs to be equipped) Gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 16 and base Freelancer Agility +12 and allows the character to equip Bows.

!Rapid Fire 600 ABP Action ability Allows the character to attack physically four times, but the multiplier is halved and Defense isn't taken into account. !Rapid Fire cannot be blocked, and additional spells and special effects won't come into play. The third and fourth strike of !Rapid Fire provoke no counters, nor do they dispel Sleep, Confuse or Controlled.

As a Job: The Ranger has good Strength for a Clothes Job, but low Stamina. This is countered by the fact that the Ranger can remain in the Back Row. He's quite poor against magic attacks for this reason, as he has neither the HP nor the magical robes to withstand them. The only thing that makes a Ranger stand out as a Job is the ability to wield Bows and the ability to strike with unerring accuracy. Bows are not very good, lack impressive special abilities and their damage is really hard to boost since it requires two hands. Without !Aim, you will see that their accuracy is also pretty bad, this being only 70 % for most Bows. The most powerful Bows for their time are the Hayate Bow when stolen in Drakenvale and the Artemis Bow when wielded versus Magic Beasts, which makes them quite potent.

Taught abilities: I can be quick about Equip Bows, 'cause it sucks. Bows without !Aim miss a lot. There is no reason to especially want them. If you want damage potential on White and Time Mages, equip an offensive magic skillset. Other Jobs are better served by better physical options such as Barehanded or Dual-Wield. There's a few niche scenarios (the Artemis Bow really does pack a great punch versus Magic Beasts, and has a non-bad Hit Rate so that's good on Thieves or somesuch) where you can use those two anyway, though. !Aim on other Jobs is often a triviality as well, since Bows are about the only weapons to miss often anyway. Except Axes and Hammers, but you can't !Aim with a Berserker, so the Gladiator is the only Job (wielding both Axes and Bows) that could negate a present miss chance. The Blood Sword is another notable oddity where !Aim could prove useful, as is the Mystic Knight. In many battles, you'll want the Mystic Knight to simply set a status (Break Spellblade is the best example) at which point the Mystic Knight's damage output is irrelevant but his Hit Rate is important.

!Animals is very sweet, actually. Those few that deal damage will run off Magic Power, so !Animals is best utilized on a Job with high Magic Power. With only 15 ABP needed to learn the command, it's a great secondary action ability for Black Mages and Summoners since they already can deal great amounts of damage.

!Rapid Fire is where physical attacks get broken. The attack becomes effectively twice as powerful, is unblockable, ignores Defense and has no random effects. With Dual-Wield, that's eight attacks. !Rapid Fire works together with !Spellblade. !Rapid Fire is the best physical-related ability in the game and you can't pass it up. For this reason, the Ranger is not a forgotten Job but a very popular one.

Freelancer gains: Nothing, really. No inherent qualities and no stat boots worth mentioning when you compare them to other options. Freelancers are best employed as physical attacks though (since Mimes are better casters), and you'll want !Rapid Fire for them.

Position in optimal play: Spending time as a Ranger is mostly something you endure until you learn !Rapid Fire. Packs a good punch versus Calofisteri and Apanda with the Artemis Bow. A quick dip for !Animals is also defendable, but not necessary.
