<a id="s6-9"></a>

## 6.9. Mystic Knight MYSTIC-LINK

"Able to enchant swords, these magical warriors automatically cast Shell when HP is low."

Stats: Strength: + 14 Agility: + 14 Vitality: + 14 Magic Power: + 01

**Can equip:** Knives, Swords, Shields, Heavy Helmets, Clothes, Heavy Armor, · **Freelancer gains:** Magic Shell, Strength bonus, Agility bonus, Vitality bonus,

Gauntlets Magic Power bonus

!Attack !Spellblade ---- !Item

10 ABP Magic Shell 20 ABP !Spellblade (level 1) 30 ABP !Spellblade (level 2) 50 ABP !Spellblade (level 3) 70 ABP !Spellblade (level 4) 100 ABP !Spellblade (level 5) 400 ABP !Spellblade (level 6)

Magic Shell 10 ABP Support ability When the character reaches Near Death status (12.5 % maximum HP or less), a Magic Barrier will be immediately cast, setting Shell on the character, halving magical damage done and halving the Hit Rate for magical attacks.

!Spellblade 1 30 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 4 and base Freelancer Magic Power - 9 and allows the character to cast up to level 1 Sword Magic. For more info on !Spellblade, see [SPELLBLADE-LINK]

!Spellblade 2 60 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 6 and base Freelancer Magic Power - 7 and allows the character to cast up to level 2 Sword Magic.

!Spellblade 3 110 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 8 and base Freelancer Magic Power - 5 and allows the character to cast up to level 3 Sword Magic.

!Spellblade 4 180 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 10 and base Freelancer Magic Power - 3 and allows the character to cast up to level 4 Sword Magic.

!Spellblade 5 280 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 12 and base Freelancer Magic Power - 1 and allows the character to cast up to level 5 Sword Magic.

!Spellblade 6 680 ABP Action ability Gives the character base Freelancer Strength + 14 and base Freelancer Magic Power + 1 and allows the character to cast all Sword Magic.

As a Job: The Mystic Knight has surprising stats for a heavy armor Job, as its Agility and Magic Power are higher than you'd expect. He ranks quite high in Agility compared to other Jobs (second!) and he even gets a tiniest of Magic Power boosts over a Freelancer. His Strength and Stamina, obviously, suffer. Strength is comparable to Clothes Jobs and Stamina, while high, is bad compared to other heavy armor Jobs. As a melee tank, he is good enough but bad compared to similair options.

The Mystic Knight doesn't hit as hard as the other Jobs and needs to spend a turn casting a spell on his weapon before he can be anything but a weaker Knight. This turns out great for boss fights and bad for random encounters, to put it bluntly. Two-Handed is a great support ability to boost his damage, at the expense of a Shield, and Equip Sword puts him on the level of the Knight. The Mystic Knight has a long stretch in the game - between Castle Bal and the fourth tablet - where he lacks impressive physical damage because all the good swords are Knightswords he can't equip, leaving him with Knives he can't hold with two hands.

Taught abilities: Magic Shell, of course, is useless even as a free support ability; there's no way you'll want to give up your single ability slot for it. !Spellblade as an ability is half-decent, but not awesome. A Knight with !Spellblade will be better than a Mystic Knight. However, you'll really want a support ability such as Two-Handed or Dual-Wield to increase damage so you'll wind up returning to the Mystic Knight anyway. Ninjas really benefit from Spellblade by the way, since Knives are affected by !Spellblade and they have inherent Dual-Wield. In latest parts of the game as well as the GBA-only content, !Spellblade becomes very important since you can one-shot several powerful enemies by using !Rapid Fire with two weapons imbued with an element that enemy is weak against.

Freelancer gains: Magic Shell, technically, but you shouldn't need to see it. The stat boosts are nothing to write home about either. The best physical attacker contains a slot for !Spellblade 6 however, so you'll want to master Mystic Knight regardless.

Position in optimal play: A complete chore. Their !Spellblade is really useful versus Kuza Beasts, Sandcrawlers, Blue Dragons, Carbuncle, Odin, Mecha Heads, Azulmagia, King Behemoths, Omega and Necrophobe, but they lack any real punch most of the time. Train these guys in areas where your Summoners or Bards clean house, and make sure to learn !Spellblade 5. Then you're finally done with them.
