<a id="s7-14"></a>

## 7.14. !Sing SING-LINK

**Sinewy Etude:** Gradually increases the party's Strength, caster keeps on · **Swift Song:** Gradually increases the party's Agility, caster keeps on singing · **Mighty March:** Sets Regen on all characters · **s Paean:** Gradually increases the party's Magic Power, caster keeps on · **s Rime:** Gradually increases the party's level, caster keeps on singing · **Requiem:** Strong non-elemental damage to all opponents, but only to those · **s Ballad:** Sets Stop on all opponents. · **Alluring Air:** Sets Confuse on all opponents.

singing until damaged. until damaged. singing until damaged. until damaged. with an Undead nature.

Several enemies cannot evade effects caused by Sing even when their magic evasion would normally give them a chance to do so. These enemies include: Blockhead, Crew Dust, Black Flame, all Unknown enemies, Calotisteri and Omega.

The Hero's Rime, Swift Song, Sinewy Etude and Mana's Paean raise their intended stats to a maximum of 99.

iOS/Android: They raise the stat or level to 255 maximum! At least, I think. Regen healing stopped increasing at some point, and using the old Regen healing formula, I calculated the effective level of the characters had been set to 255. I assume the same goes for the stats.

Songs are learned from books and Bards you find throughout the game. Two songs, the Hero's Rime and Sinewy Etude, are taught to you only when you've reached a certain degree of AWESOME on the piano.

[PIANO-LINK]

"You have mastered the piano!!! All others quake in fear at your superhuman keyboard manipulation skill!"

The only piano's actually giving you any benefit are the seventh and last piano tunes, but you need to have played all others to actually access these. The seventh tune inspires the Bard in Crescent to teach you Mana's Paean, the final tune inspires him to teach you Hero's Rime. In addition, your piano skills soar to unknown heights. Sure, it's useless versus Exdeath, but wouldn't you rather be an erudite huomo universalis than a rampaging brute?

**Tule:** In the Pub. You need to sit to the left of the stage to get · **Carwen:** In the Pub. · **Karnak:** In the Pub. · **Jachol:** In the Pub, on stage. · **Crescent:** In the Minstrel's House on the eastern edge of town. · **Regole:** In the Pub. Find the hidden passage which leads to the piano. · **Moore:** In the Pub. · **Phantom Village:** Enter the Pub from the back door. Follow the path until you

the dancer's off the stage so you can enter and play. a split; find the hidden passage, ignore the stairway and go further until you find the piano.

None of these towns are ever consumed by the Void, so they're not missable.
