<a id="s7-17"></a>

## 7.17. !Dark Arts DARKARTS-LINK

Dark Arts are learned when a specific enemy tied to that Dark Art is killed by a Necromancer. When the monster isn't killed by the Necromancer itself, the spell isn't learned. The Dark Arts can be learned from the following monsters:

Dark Art: Tutors:

Drain Touch Mindflayer The Damned Dark Haze Lemure Exoray Deep Freeze Assassin Dark Elemental Evil Mist Zombie Dragon Unknown (blob) Meltdown Liquid Flame Claret Dragon Hellwind Objet d'Art Stingray Chaos Drive Mini Satana Curse Ironclad Dark Flare Tonberry Exdeath's Soul Doomsday Hades

Most Dark Arts that deal damage also have a chance of inflicting a status ailments. While the elemental damage is unblockable, the status ailment bit is not. This status ailment is set when (0..99) < (target's Magic Evasion%).

MP Attack: Effects:

15 Drain Touch Drains HP from a single target, does NOT inverse effects on the Undead. 18 Dark Haze Sets Old and Confuse on all targets

38 Deep Freeze Ice-elemental attack to a single target, also sets Stop 38 Evil Mist Poison-elemental attack to all targets, also sets Poison

38 Meltdown Fire-elemental attack to a single target, also sets Sap 38 Hellwind Wind-elemental attack to all targets, also sets Petrify

38 Chaos Drive Lightning-elemental attack to all targets, also sets Paralyze 42 Curse Sets a random status ailment

52 Dark Flare Non-elemental attack on all targets 66 Doomsday Non-elemental attack on all targets

iOS/Android: In the GBA game, no Dark Art was Reflectable. In the iOS and Android game however, only Drain Touch, Dark Flare and Doomsday pierce Reflect.
