<a id="s7-18"></a>

## 7.18. !Condemn CONDEMN-LINK

All Condemn attack are single-target and unblockable, but none of them will work when the target has a Heavy nature. No more than a single Condemn times can be set on a target at the same time; all subsequent attempts to set a Condemn will fail until the timer of the first has expired. Attacks performed do not receive a 50% damage boost from equipment or other sources that boost a specific element.

The timer depends on the Oracle's Job level, like so:

**Condemn learned:** 15 timer ticks · **Predict learned:** 10 timer ticks · **ABP Up learned:** 7 timer ticks · **Read Ahead learned:** 5 timer ticks

Like all timers, the timer is halved or doubled by the effects of Haste and Slow, respectively, and stopped alltogether by the effects of Stop.

**Rejuvenation:** Healing effect on target when countdown is up, also heals · **Recuperation:** Status removal on target when countdown is up · **Brimstone:** Fire-elemental attack on target when countdown is up · **Black Frost:** Ice-elemental attack on target when countdown is up · **Judgment:** Lightning-elemental attack on target when countdown is up · **Salienta:** Toad status on target when countdown is up · **Doom:** Kills enemy when countdown is up. · **Still Wing:** Stop status on target when countdown is up

targets with an Undead nature

Note that !Condemn's Doom, unlike the Blue spell Doom, does not rob you of Experience, Gil and dropped items.

iOS/Android: Only Salienta, Doom and Still Wing appear to still check for the Heavy thing, the rest of 'em can be applied no problem. Also note that the countdown effects are sped up and slowed down with Haste and Slow rather then ATB Bar starting point changing.
