<a id="s7-19"></a>

## 7.19. !Predict PREDICT-LINK

The !Predict command causes a powerful attack to be executed. First Rank has a 5 second countdown, Second Rank has a 4 second countdown and Third Rank has a three second countdown. Aside from the fact that predictions that cost more MP take less time to execute, the Rank of the prediction has no effect on the attack itself.

The attack used depends on the last digit of the caster's current MP. It is vital you keep track of this, as not all !Predict attacks are as beneficial as you would have liked. The power behind the attack is based on the target's LAST digit of the target's current HP. The higher this number is, the more powerful the attack will be. A target with 19 HP will be hit much harder than one with 301 HP. This is because 9 > 1.

!Predict attacks that hit both the enemy and your party will hit the enemy far more strongly than it will hit you. Status ailments set will have an equal chance, however. !Predict damage is independent of stats or level, but can be boosted by elemental boosting equipment and Elemental Power.

0 Cleansing is a non-elemental attack that only targets the enemy. 1 Deluge is a water-elemental attack that hits all targets on-screen that may set Toad. 2 Eruption is a fire-elemental attack that hits all targets on-screen that may set Sap. 3 Starfall is a non-elemental attack that hits all targets on-screen that may set Death. 4 Rockslide is an earth-elemental attack that hits all targets on-screen. Note that Rockslide can also hit Floating targets, unlike most Earth-elemental attacks. 5 Divine Judgment is a holy-elemental attack that damage all opponents and restores MP to all allies 6 Healing Wind is a healing move that only targets your allies that may Dispel 7 Blessing is a healing move that only targets your allies that may set Regen 8 Hurricane is a wind-elemental attack that hits all targets on-screen that may set Silence. 9 Pestilence is a poison-elemental attack that only targets your allies that may set Poison.

Generally speaking, Cleansing is the most powerful and beneficial offensive attack, Healing Wind and Blessing are healing moves that will only target the party. Divine Judgment attacks the enemy and restores you. Pestilence is the only one clearly bad for you. The other attacks can be used at your own discretion. Note that Starfall's random Death doesn't care about the sharply reduced damage output on your side, so it's a very dangerous move.

So, to recap, you need to look at the caster's current MP. When the last digit of this value is 0, 5, 6 or 7, !Predict will execute an attack that is purely beneficial to you. The numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 and 8 can be used at your own discretion; they'll damage you and may set a status ailment on your characters, but keep in mind that elements can be absorbed and status ailments can be protected against. When the number is 9, never use !Predict. 9 is the number of Beelzebub.
