<a id="s7-20"></a>

## 7.20. !Finisher FINISHER-LINK

The !Finisher command is a new GBA command that is quite a bit more powerful than previous physical options you had at your disposal. !Finisher unleashes either a critical hit or a max-powered elemental attack.

The Critical Hit! attack inflicts a normal !Attack where the weapon or weapons used inflicts a critical hit automatically. Other critical hit effects, such as MP-driven critical hits used by Rune weapons or automatic criticals based on Nature (Man Eater, Aevis Killer, etc.) don't stack with !Finisher's Critical Hit!. MP-driven critical hit weapons will still cause the character to lose MP when using Critical Hit!, though. Staves and Harps deal normal damage with Critical Hit!, Rods and the Blood Sword can inflict critical hits, however.

The Elemental Attack! inflicts 9999 damage to the target, unless the target nullifies or absorbs the element. The element is determined by the character using and is tied to the Crystal spirit it inherits in the story:

Bartz will use a Wind-elemental attack Lenna will use a Water-elemental attack Galuf/Krile will use an Earth-elemental attack Faris will use a Fire-elemental attack

In addition to the critical hit and the elemental attack, the !Finisher command may also fail, in which case nothing happens. The chances of these three possibilities occuring depend on the Gladiator Job level that is reached on the character using the !Finisher command:

Job Level 0 37.5 % failure, 37.5 % Critical Hit, 25 % Elemental Attack Job Level 1 31.25 % failure, 37.5 % Critical Hit, 31.25 % Elemental Attack Job Level 2 31.25 % failure, 31.25 % Critical Hit, 37.5 % Elemental Attack Job Level 3 31.25 % failure, 25 % Critical Hit, 43.75 % Elemental Attack Job Level 4 25 % failure, 25 % Critical Hit, 50 % Elemental Attack
