<a id="s7-3"></a>

## 7.3. !Spellblade SPELLBLADE-LINK

**the following exceptions:** Man-Eater, Rune Blade, Excalipoor and the Blood

!Spellblade works with all Knives, Ninja Blades, Swords and Knightswords with Sword.

MP Spell: Effect:

2 Fire Adds Fire-elemental property, gains double power and barrier- piercing property when striking a weakness 2 Blizzard Adds Ice-elemental property, gains double power and barrier- piercing property when striking a weakness 2 Thunder Adds Lightning-elemental property, gains double power and barrier-piercing property when striking a weakness

1 Poison Adds Poison-inducing property, adds Poison-elemental property, gains double power and barrier-piercing property when striking a weakness 1 Silence Adds non-elemental property, adds Silence-inducing property. 2 Sleep Adds non-elemental property, adds Sleep-inducing property.

5 Fira Adds Fire-elemental property, gains triple power and barrier- piercing property when striking a weakness 5 Blizzara Adds Ice-elemental property, gains triple power and barrier- piercing property when striking a weakness 5 Thundara Adds Lightning-elemental property, gains triple power and barrier-piercing property when striking a weakness

13 Drain Adds HP-draining property. Effects are inverted when striking an Undead creature. 15 Break Adds non-elemental property, adds Petrify-inducing property. 16 Bio Adds Poison-elemental property, instantly kills non-Heavy opponents weak to the element. When the target is Heavy, it gains quadruple power and a barrier-piercing property.

15 Firaga Adds Fire-elemental property, instantly kills non-Heavy opponents weak to the element. When the target is Heavy, it gains quadruple power and a barrier-piercing property. 15 Blizzaga Adds Ice-elemental property, instantly kills non-Heavy opponents weak to the element. When the target is Heavy, it gains quadruple power and a barrier-piercing property. 15 Thundaga Adds Lightning-elemental property, instantly kills non-Heavy opponents weak to the element. When the target is Heavy, it gains quadruple power and a barrier-piercing property.

10 Holy Adds Holy-elemental property, instantly kills non-Heavy opponents weak to the element. When the target is Heavy, it gains quadruple power and a barrier-piercing property. 30 Flare Increases Battle Power by 100 and only 25 % of the target's Defense is taken into account. 1 Osmose Adds MP-draining property. When calculated damage is more than 0, 25 % of the target's current MP is drained instead. If not, no effect. Effects are inverted when striking an Undead creature.

Elemental Sword magic only has an effect on damage if the target has a specific reaction versus said element. Absorbed elements will be absorbed, nullified elemental swords will miss and when the target is weak to the element, Defense will be ignored entirely and the power will be multiplied by either 2 (Fire, Ice, Bolt), 3 (Fira, Blizzara, Thundara) or 4 (Bio, Firaga, Blizzaga, Thundaga and Holy). In addition,level 3 elemental spells and Bio and Holy cast on swords will make them kill any target weak to the element instantly, unless the target is Heavy.

Status-inducing Spellblade magic will make the sword non-elemental and will apply the status when the initial sword strike hits the target, even when it does not deal any damage.

Drain-inducing Spellblade effects deals normal damage but drains damage done. The effect is reversed when the target is Undead.

Osmose-inducing Spellblade effects calculates normal damage. If it does over 0 damage, it'll drain 25 % of the target's current MP instead of dealing normal damage.

Flare Spellblade effects will increase Battle Power by 100 and will only use 25 % of the target's Defense in its calculation.

Spellblade effects are applied to the weapon you hold, in the hand you hold it in. When you cast a Spellblade spell and you switch to another weapon, or even switch your sword and shield across hands, the Spellblade effect is lost. Note that the Rune Blade and Excalipoor are two weapons that the Mystic Knight can equip that are not compatible with Spellblade.
