<a id="s7-8"></a>

## 7.8. !Blue BLUE-LINK

**Doom:** Sets a Countdown of 30 units to Death, robs you of experience and · **Roulette:** Pick a random target to cast Death upon · **Aqua Breath:** Non-elemental attack that deals eight times as much damage to · **Death:** Casts Death on all enemy targets whose level is divisble by · **Graviga:** Casts Graviga on all enemy targets whose level is divisble · **Old:** Casts Old on all enemy targets whose levels are divisble by 2 · **Flare:** Barrier-piercing non-elemental damage on all enemy targets · **s Chorus:** Sets Toad, ST · **Lilliputian Lyric:** Sets Mini, ST · **Flash:** Sets Darkness, MT · **Time Slip:** Sets Old and Sleep. · **Moon Flute:** Sets Berserk on all characters. · **Death Claw:** Reduces HP to a single digit, sets Paralyze, misses when target · **Aero:** Wind-elemental attack, ST/MT. · **Aera:** Wind-elemental attack, ST/MT. · **Aeroga:** Wind-elemental attack, ST/MT. · **Flame Thrower:** Fire-elemental attack, ST. · **Goblin Punch:** Non-elemental physical attack of which the power depends on · **Dark Sprak:** Halves target's level. · **Guard:** Halves targets's Defense. · **Transfusion:** Restores target's HP and MP to full, kills caster and removes · **Mind Blast:** Non-elemental damage, sets Paralyze. · **Vampire:** Drains damage done, deals (max HP - current HP)/2 damage. NOTE: due · **Magic Hammer:** Halves MP of one target. · **Mighty Guard:** Sets Protect, Shell and Float on all characters. · **Destruct:** Deals (current HP) damage, sets Death on caster. · **Needles:** Deals 1000 damage. · **White Wind:** Heals all targets for the caster's current HP's worth. · **Missile:** Cuts a target's current HP by 75 %, misses when target is Heavy.

dropped items desert creatures five by four whose level is divisble by three is Heavy. the weapon held by the caster. Deals eight times as much damage when the levels of the caster and target are the same. the caster from battle. to a bug, it deals (max HP - current HP) damage in FFV Advance. 3 ???: Deals (max HP - current HP) damage.

iOS/Android: Vampire deals (max HP - current HP)/2 damage like it should. Doom's counter isn't halved or doubled by Haste and Slow, rather the decrementing occurs faster or slower.
