<a id="s8-3-3"></a>

### 8.3.3. Special Weapon Properties

What's not listed here is Back Row OK, Spellblade compatability, elements, stat boosts and Attack Power; all are given by the game itself.

- Mage Masher: Has a 33 % chance of casting Silence. - Main Gauche: Has a 25 % chance of avoiding a blockable physical attack. - Dancing Dagger: Has a 50 % chance to !Dance rather than !Attack - Air Knife: Boosts Wind-elemental attacks by 50 % - Thief Knife: Has a 50 % chance to !Mug rather than !Attack - Assassin's Dagger: Has a 25 % chance to cast Death - Man-Eater: Deals double damage to Humanoid targets, does twice the amount of damage with !Jump. - Chicken Knife: Has a 25 % chance to !Flee rahter than !Attack

- Sasuke's Katana: Has a 25 % chance of avoiding a blockable physical attack. - Kagenui: Has a 25 % chance of casting Stop.

- Ancient Sword: Has a 33 % chance of casting Old. - Sleep Blade: Has a 50 % chance of casting Sleep. - Rune Blade: Uses 8 MP for a 'critical hit' with 20 more Attack Power. - Excalipoor: Deals 1 damage, always. - Blood Sword: Drains damage done, effects are reversed on the Undead. - Defender: Has a 25 % chance of avoiding a blockable physical attack, casts Protect when used as an item.

- Twin Lance: Hits twice.

- Death Sickle: Has a 33 % chance of casting Death. - Poison Axe: Has a 67 % chance of casting Poison. - Gaia Hammer: Has a 25 % chance of casting Earthquake INSTEAD of !Attack. Boosts Earth-elemental attacks by 50 % - Rune Axe: Uses 5 MP for a 'critical hit' with 10 more Attack Power.

- Ashura: Critical Hit Rate of 12 % - Wind Slash: Critical Hit Rate of 12 %, has a 12 % chance of casting Wind Slash INSTEAD of !Attack, boosts Wind-elemental attacks by 50 % - Osafune: Critical Hit Rate of 12 % - Kotetsu: Critical Hit Rate of 12 % - Kiku-ichimonji: Critical Hit Rate of 12 % - Murasame: Critical Hit Rate of 25 % - Masamune: Critical Hit Rate of 15 %, casts Haste when used as an item. Wielder starts every battle with a full ATB bar. - Murakumo: Critical Hit Rate of 20 % - Mutsunokami: Critical Hit Rate of 50 %

- Flame Rod: Casts Firaga when used as an item, then breaks. Boosts Fire- elemental attacks by 50 % - Frost Rod: Casts Blizzaga when used as an item, then breaks. Boosts Ice- elemental attacks by 50 % - Thunder Rod: Casts Thundaga when used as an item, then breaks. Boosts Lightning-elemental attacks by 50 % - Poison Rod: Casts Bio when used as an item, then breaks. Boosts Poison- elemental attacks by 50 % - Lilith Rod: Deals no damage, has the effect of !Flirt, has a 25 % chance of casting Osmose. - Magus Rod: Boosts Fire-, Ice-, Lightning-, Poison, Earth- and Wind-elemental attacks by 50 % - Wonder Wand: Casts Return when used as an item. For !Attack purposes, see section 8.3.2 - Demon's Rod: Has a 16 % chance of casting Death

- Power Staff: Casts Berserk on the target, no physical damage. - Healing Staff: Casts Cura on the target, no physical damage. - Sage's Staff: Casts Life when used as an item. Boosts Holy-elemental attacks by 50 % - Staff of Light: Casts Holy when used as an item, then breaks. - Judgement Staff: Casts Dispel when used as an item.

- Dark Bow: Has a 66 % chance of setting Darkness. - Rune Bow: Has a 33 % chance of setting Silence, no physical damage. - Killer Bow: Has a 8 % chance of destroying the target, never when the target has a Heavy nature - Hayate Bow: Has a 25 % of using !Rapid Fire rather than !Attack - Aevis Killer: Deals twice as much damage to Aevis'. - Artemis Bow: Deals twice as much damage to magical creatures. - Fairy's Bow: Has a 12 % chance of setting Confuse

- Silver Harp: Deals 1/16 current of HP damage - Dreamp Harp: Deals 2/16 current of HP damage, sets Sleep - Lamia's Harp: Deals 3/16 current of HP damage, sets Confuse - Apollo's Harp: Magical attack, deals eight times as much damage to Dragons and the Undead.

- Whip: Has a 50 % chance of Paralyzing Magic Beast creatures. - Blitz Whip: Has a 33 % chance of casting Thunder. - Chain Whip: Has a 50 % chance of Paralyzing Magic Beast creatures. - Beast Killer: Has a 50 % chance of Paralyzing Magic Beasts deals twice as much damage to Magical Beasts - Fire Lash: Has a 33 % chance of casting Firaga. - Dragon's Whisker: Has a 50 % chance of Paralyzing magical creatures, deals twice as much damage to Dragons.

- Gaia Bell: Has a 25 % chance of casting Earthquake, boosts Earth-elemental attacks by 50 % - Rune Chime: Uses 5 MP for a 'critical hit' with 10 more Attack Power. Boosts Fire-, Ice-, Lightning-, Poison-, Holy-, Earth- and Wind-elemental attacks by 50 %
