<a id="s8-3-4"></a>

### 8.3.4. Special Armor Properties

- Aegis Shield: Has a 33 % chance of blocking a magical attack, makes the wearer immune to Petrify. - Diamond Shield: Halves damage done by Lightning-elemental attacks. - Flame Shield: Absorbs Fire-elemental attacks. - Ice Shield: Absorbs Ice-elemental attacks. - Genji Shield: Makes the wearer immune to Mini and Paralyze. - Force Shield: Makes the wearer immune to all elemental attacks

- Gold Hairpin: Halves MP cost of spells - Lamai's Tiara: Makes the wearer immune to Confuse, boosts chances of Sword Dance appearing when a Dance is executed and success rate of !Flirt. - Diamond Helm: Halves damage done by Lightning-elemental attacks. - Ribbon: Makes the wearer immune to Death, Petrify, Toad, Poison, Darkness, Old, Berserk and Silence. - Genji Helm: Makes the wearer immune to Mini and Confuse. - Thornlet: Inflicts Sap, makes the wearer immune to Sleep.

- Diamond Armor: Halves damage done by Lightning-elemental attacks. - Genji Armor: Makes the wearer immune to Toad and Confuse.

- Gaia Gear: Boosts Earth-elemental attacks by 50 % - Angel Robe: Makes the wearer immune to Poison-elemental attacks and the Poison status. - Diamond Plate: Halves damage done by Lightning-elemental attacks. - Mirage Vest: Inflicts Image 1 - Rainbow Dress: Makes the wearer immune to Confuse, boosts chances of Sword Dance appearing when a Dance is executed and success rate of !Flirt. - Bone Mail: Makes the wearer absorb Poison-elemental attacks, take 50 % damage from Ice-elemental attacks and take double damage form Fire- and Holy- elemental attacks. Makes the wearer immune to Death, Poison, Darkness, Old, Confuse, Berserk and Regen. Makes the wearer Undead. - Vishnu Vest: Halves damage done by Fire-, Ice- and Lightning-elemental attacks.

- Sage's Surplice: Makes the wearer immune to Silence. - Gaia Gear: Boosts Earth-elemental attacks by 50 %
