<a id="s8-4"></a>

## 8.4. Attack types

The bottom line of any 'normal' damage formula in the game is as follows:

Damage done = (Attack - Defense OR Magic Defense) * Multiplier

There are several kinds of attacks that differ from this base formula in one way or another. These include:

Magical attacks Physical magical attacks Curative magical attacks Curative/status-removing magical attacks Barrier-piercing magical attacks Random magical attacks Random level-based magical attacks

Magical attacks are affected by the caster's Magic Power and level. Resistence is based off the target's Magic Defense. Elemental boosts and elemental properties of the attack and the target are factored in. Examples: Firaga, Ramuh's Judgment Bolt, Water Scroll ^1 HP-draining attacks use the exact same damage formula but drain damage done and the effects are inverted on creatures with an Undead nature. ^2 Whispering Wind uses the exact same damage formula, but each character not with the Death or Petrify status gains 25 % of the damage dealt as HP. ^3 Ground-based attacks use the exact same damage formula but miss versus targets with the Float status. Example: Squirrel, Earthquake, Gaia's Wrath.

Physical magical attacks are affected by the caster's Magic Power and level. Resistence is based off the target's Defense. Elemental boosts and elemental properties of the attack and the target are factored in. Examples: Chocobo Kick and Fat Chocobo, Branch Spear, Jump (enemy magic), Reaper's Sword.

Curative magic damage is affected by the caster's Magic Power and level. Defense and Magic Defense are ignored. Damage is dealt to creatures with an Undead nature. Examples: Cure, Cura ^1 Curative magic damage that heals HP back to full uses the same damage formula, but heals HP back to maximum disregaring actual damage output when cast on a single target. Creatures with an Undead nature will see HP dropping to a single digit, though this effect won't be executed when the creature is also Heavy. Examples: Curaga

Curative magic damage which also heals status effects is affected by the caster's Magic Power and level. Magic Defense is NOT ignored but factored in. Damage is dealt to creatures with an Undead nature. Examples: Nightingale, Chakra, Neutralize.

Barrier-piercing magical attacks are affected by the caster's Magic Power and level. Resistence is based off the target's Magic Defense, but only 1/32 thereof. Elemental boosts and elemental properties of the attack and the target are factored in. Examples: Flare, Giga Flare, Level 3 Flare, Requiem. ^1 Quite a few spells use the exact same damage formula as the normal Barrier- piercing magical attacks formula, but add the Sap status. Examples: Bio, Mustard Bomb, Almagest, Frost, Shadowflare, Mind Blast. ^2 MP-draining attacks use the exact same damage formula but drain damage done and the effects are inverted on creatures with an Undead nature.

Random magical damage is based off NO stats of the caster. Attack ranges anywhere from 50 to 200 and the Multiplier is nothing but the spell's power. Resistence if based off the target's Magic Defense. Examples: Zantetsuken (enemy magic), Cave-In, Meteor, Zombie Breath

Random level-based magical defense has an Attack ranging anywhere from 10 to 100 while the multiplier is equal to the caster's (level / 8) - 2. Elemental boosts and elemental properties of the attack and the target are factored in. Examples: Bee Swarm, Poison Breath, Ignus Fatuus.

Others:

Breath Wing, Blaze and Lightning: damage done equals 25 % of the target's maximum HP. Elemental boosts are ignored, but elemental properties of the attack and the target are factored in.

**Wave Cannon:** damage done equals 50 % of the target's maximum HP, and the Sap

status is added.

Self-Destruct, Holy Breath, TNT, Poison Breath, Dragon Breath: damage done equals the caster's current HP. Elemental boosts are ignored, but elemental properties of the attack and the target are factored in. In the case of Self-Destruct and TNT, Death is set to the Caster.

White Wind heals HP equal to the caster's current HP. The effects are NOT inverted on creatures with an Undead nature.

Goblin Punch's Attack is either the monster's Strength or both of your weapons' combined Battle Power. The multiplier equals that of swords. When the level of the caster and target are the same, the damage is multiplied by 8.

One little note is that Goblin Punch uses the Battle Power shown in-menu, not the one used. These two are identical in all situations but the following:

Actual Battle Power: Menu Battle Power: Barehanded Fists varies 3 K. Knuckles Barehanded Fists varies + 50 3 Rune Edge 70 (with MP) 50 Excalipoor 1 100 Rune Axe 81 (with MP) 71 Staff of Light 30 45 Sage's Staff 45 53 Judgment Staff 45 60 Silver Harp 0 15 Dream Harp 0 25 Lamia's Harp 0 35 Apollo's Harp 0 45 Rune Chime 55 (with MP) 45

Goblin Punch uses non-boosted Fists, thus making it very weak. The MP-inflicted damage boost on the Rune Edge, Rune Axe and Rune Bell are not taken into account, the three Staves wind up using a stronger power than the actual power which is used for a magical damage output and the Harps cast a spell instead of using their Battle Power so it's just there for menu and Goblin Punch purposes. The biggest exception is the Excailbur which has a menu power of 100 (which is VERY good at that time) while actually having one of 1. With Goblin Punch, you may tap into the awesome hidden power that is the 100.
