<a id="s8-6"></a>

## 8.6. Statistics

Strength: Strength measures your physical prowess. Strength is a major factor in determining damage done by Swords, Axes, Hammers, Katanas, Spears, Barehanded attacks, Knives, Bows and Whips. In addition, damage dealt by !Throw and !Kick as well as the Goblin Punch spell is affected by Strength.

Stamina: Stamina measures your constitution and physical resilience. Your Stamina is what determines how much HP you have. Note that Stamina boosts due to equipment is never used in this formula, so your equipment does not affect your HP in any case. Next to HP, Stamina is a factor in determining how much HP you gain from the Regen status. Since Stamina governs HP, Stamina also indirectly affects all attacks based off your current HP, such as Holy Breath, ??? and Self-Destruct.

Agility: The main influence of Agility lies in the charge time of the character's ATB bar; the higher the character's Agility, the faster he or she will regain the ability to act. In addition, Agility is a factor in determining the damage done by Bells (but not the Rune Chime or Gaia Bell), !Throw (but not Scrolls) and the Chicken Knife. It is also a factor in normal Knives, Ninja Blades, Bows and Whips, but due to a bug this influence is marginal.

Magic: Magic Power is the key ability that influences the damage output (or healing) of magical attacks, including those that target Defense. Rods, Staves, Apollo's Harp, the Blood Sword, the Diamond Bell and Tinklebell, Rune Blade, Rune Axe and the Rune Chime. It also includes several action abilities, including !Lance, !Chakra, !Throw (but only the Scrolls), !Gaia, !Animals and !Dance (but not Sword Dance). Magic Power also determines the amount of MP of the character.

Evasion: Targets cannot Evade physical attacks when the target has Sleep, Paralyze, Confuse or Stop set. Prior to a normal Evasion check, checks are made for special pieces of equipment:

25 % chance the attack misses when the character has the Shiradori support ability set (inherent to the Samurai) 25 % chance the attack misses when Sasuke's Katana and/or a Defender is equipped (note that two of these weapons do not stack) 25 % chance the attack misses when a Main Gauche is equipped (note that two Main Gauches do not stack) 33 % chance the attack misses when an Elven Mantle is equipped

The Mini status doubles the target's Evasion%. When the target has the Toad status, Evasion% is set to 0. The Mani Wizard and the Goblins from Bartz' first three fights can under no circumstance evade a physical attacks. A large list of mostly airborne enemies cannot evade Aerial weapons; these include Thor's Hammers, all Bows, all Whips and the Rising Sun (but not the Full Moon).

Magic Evasion: Magic Evasion is a hidden stat, but is governs the likelyhood of magical attacks affecting the target. Damaging spells are almost always unblockable, but status ailment-inducing magical attacks and the like are often not. In addition, Rods and the !Flirt command check for Magic Evasion.

Prior to a normal Magic Evasion check, a check is made for the Aegis Shield; even normally unblockble attacks have a 33 % chance they won't connect even before a Magic Evasion check is made. Sleeping, Confused, Paralyzed or Stopped characters cannot use the Aegis Shield to block magical attacks.

The chance of a magical attack hitting becomes:

(Listed Spell Hit Rate + Caster's Level) - Target Level

Since Magic Evasion is a hidden stat, here is a list of all pieces of equipment that grand the wearer a Magic Evasion bonus:

Flame Shield 5 Ice Shield 5

Gold Hairpin 5 Plumed Hat 5 Lamia's Tiara 10 Wizard's Hat 5 Hypno Crown 5 Sage's Miter 5 Circlet 5

Ribbon 5 Thornlet 10 Royal Crown 10

Cotton Robe 15 Silk Robe 16 Sage's Surplice 17 Gaia Gear 18 Luminous Robe 19 Black Robe 20 White Robe 20 Robe of Lords 24

Mirage Vest 3 Rainbow Dress 4 Bone Mail 10 Angel Robe 25 Vishnu Vest 5

Silver Armlet 5 Diamond Armlet 5 Angel Ring 10 Protect Ring 10 Flame Ring 5 Coral Ring 5

Elven Mantle 5 Hermes Sandals 5 Silver Specs 3 Red Shoes 3 Cursed Ring 10 Sorceror's Mantle 20 Chaos Orb 10 Crystal Orb 12

For info on Defense and Magic Defense, take a look at section 8.8!
