<a id="s8-8"></a>

## 8.8. Defense and Magic Defense

Normally, you can assume that physical damage is reduced by Defense and that magical attacks are reduced in potency by Magic Defense. This is usually the case, but not always. In addition, FFV (Advance) has several ways of screwing around defenses without you expecting it.

Note that the following attacks have randomized power behind their blows, so that damage output may seem erratic while Defense/Magic Defense remains constant: Delta Attack, Poison Breath, Bee Swarm, Leaf Swirl, Sandstorm, Ignus Fatuus, Poison Mist, Comet, Meteo, Zantetsuken (enemy), Cave-In

Physical attacks which ignore Defense completely:

- !Rapid Fire with all weapons - Weapons which are strong versus a specific creature ignore Defense. For details, see section 8.7 just prior to this one. - Critical hits from Fists, Katanas and !Finisher ignore Defense. - Goblin Punch (but only when level is identical between caster and target) - Elemental damage when the target is weak against that element. In addition, when the target absorbs the element, Defense is also ignored, but the damage heals the target instead. The includes both weapons which normally have the elemental property and elements set with !Spellblade. - In addition, it is a possible (and fairly popular) property of monster's !Special attcks.

Physical attacks which ignore 75 % of the target's Defense:

- Axes, Hammers, Gaia Hammer - Rune Blade, Rune Axe and Rune Chime - Weapons imbued with Flare !Spellblade

Weapons that target Magic Defense:

- Rods - Sage Staff, Staff of Light, Judgment Staff - Blood Sword - Bells - Harps

Note that targets with the Toad and Mini status have 0 Defense for purposes of damage calculation.

Magical attacks which ignore Magic Defense completely:

- Attacks which heal the target ignore Magic Defense. - Elemental damage when the target is weak against that element. In addition, when the target absorbs the element, Defense is also ignored, but the damage heals the target instead. - Attacks which deal a set amount of damage/healing such as 1000 Needles and Potions ignore Magic Defense.

Magical attacks which ignore Magic Defense for 97 % (31/32):

- Flare, Lv. 3 Flare and Giga Flare - Bio, Stomach Acid, Mustard Bomb, Almagest, Quicksand, Blaze, Shadowflare - Psyche, !Lance (but only the MP part), Mystery Waltz, Lilith Kiss - Mind Blast, Requiem

Spells that target Defense:

- Odin's Gungnir - Chocobo Kick, Fat Chocobo - Branch Arrow and Branch Spear - Jump (enemy) - Reaper's Sword - Goblin Punch

Goblin Punch is the only attack out of those listed above that uses Strength (and the equipped weapon(s)) and not Magic Power for purposes of damage calculation.

Note that targets with the Toad status have 0 Magic Defense for purposes of damage calculation.
