<a id="s9-0"></a>
## 9.0. iOS/Android Release additions and notes

<a id="s9-1"></a>

## 9.1. Changes

Apart from updates graphics and all that jazz, there are several minor gameplay changes compared to the GBA game. I've also seen some changes in damage; given the same situation, it seems certain attacks deal more damage or have a different hit rate. In general, certain magic attacks seem to do more damage and blockable magical attacks seem to miss more often. Since I do not have the same data I have for the Super Famicom and GBA games, and cannot say with the same amount of certainty what is going on. Information would be appreciated.

- Attacks and Action Abilities:

The Geomancer's !Gaia ability is now able to conjure all four terrain-bound attacks regardless of the caster's level. The exact mechanics of this new new feature is unknown. Some testing gave me the theory that rather then choose a random number between 0 and the caster's level to determine what attack to perform, it choose a random number between 0 and 99. The new incarnation of !Gaia seems to heavily favor the attacks your previously

The Samurai's !Mineuchi now works correctly, setting Paralyze while dealing 50% !Attack damage.

The Beastmaster's !Calm functions correctly in that in works against Magic Beasts.

The Monk's !Kick now ignores Row, both target Row and attacker's Row. This makes it better. It is however not boosted by Kaiser Knuckles, so that balances it out somewhat.

Vampire correctly deals ((max HP - current HP) / 2) damage like it did in the Super Famicom game. It will now miss versus Heavy targets, an illogical change that is likely a bug.

The Bee Swarm attack that may be used with the Ranger's !Animals ability now sets Poison to the targets it hits.

Power Drink functions correctly.

Dragoon's !Jump only takes 10 ABP to learn rather than 50 like it does in the GBA and Super Famicom games.

Several previously unblockable attacks are now no longer unblockable. Examples include Breath Wing, Blaze, Lightning, Surge Beam, Death Potion and Dark Sigh.

- Monsters:

The ArcheoAevis fight gives you all five dropped items at the end, not only one like it did in the GBA game.

Exdeath and Dragon Pod now correclty have Regen set during your boss battles with them.

Lamia no longer singles out male characters with her Entice attack in the Flying Ruins.

Tyrannosaur now counters all spells with Poison Breath.

- Items:

Twin Lance now deals damage twice with !Jump, !Focus, !Mineuchi, Sword Dance and possibly !Rapid Fire. This makes the weapon that much more awesome. since it already deals doubly damage with !Jump, this thing will deal tremendous damage with a Jumping Thief or Ninja.

The Dancing Dagger, when paired with Dual-Wield, does not replace the normal strike of the weapon in the other hand, meaning that a character with both the Dancing Dagger and another weapon equipped can use any of the four Dances, followed or preceded by a normal Attack. In the case of Sword Dance, that means that the weapon can strike twice; once with the 400% damage and once normally. If a monster is killed with the Jitterbug Dance but subsequently struck by the second weapon, this can result in a harmless graphic glitch.

The Thief Knife, when using !Capture, will strike with both weapons. Combined with Dual-Wield, that can mean the off-hand weapon will strike twice; once as part of !Capture, once with !Fight.

The Defender Knightsword can no longer be used as an item to cast Protect.

The Mirage Vest no longer re-applies Image (1) when you swap equipment mid- battle.

The Lilith Rod now either makes the user use !Flirt or casts Osmose, rather then apply a !Flirt-like effect upon a hit, then possibly casting Osmose in addition to that effect.

The Magic Lamp will can now summon Fat Chocobo when it summons Chocobo's, and whenever Catoblepas is summoned, it's petrifying gaze targets all monsters. Egg Chop still displays no graphics...

Battle System:

The ATB Bar no longer resets when Confuse or Berserk is set, and Haste and Slow no longer affect the starting position of the ATB bar. Instead, these speed-altering statuses affect how fast the ATB bar will fill. The effect feels as is Haste and Slow are equally as effective as they were.

MP damage and healing is colour-coded for your convenience; MP damage is purple, MP healing is blue.

You can tap any character with a full ATB bar and have his or her turn come up, allowing you to skip characters.

Status ailments and magical status have an effect on enemy sprites, allowing you to clearly identify if a monster has been afflicted with a certain status or not.

Resist (elemental) Potions, Dragon Shield and Elemental Power no longer reset when you touch equipment in-battle.

Berserk status, including innate abilities taught and sported by the Berserker, will have the character attack enemies from front to back rather than entirely random.
