<a id="s9-2"></a>

## 9.2. Achievements

Final Fantasy V for the iOS/Android engine is tied to Game Center, and Game Center keeps track of a total of 96 achievements. Some are impossible to avoid throughout the game, others are just insane. If you're curious, or if you want to be the FINAL FANTASY V Master, here's what you can unlock:

Customer Appreciation You played a new game. [5 pts]

FINAL FANTASY V Master Earn all achievements. [5 pts]

Say Hello, Syldra! You obtained the pirate ship. [5 pts]

What!? You obtained a job from the wind crystal. [5 pts]

He's a She! You found out Faris is a woman. [5 pts]

Fear of Heights You obtained a wind drake. [5 pts]

Too Late You obtained a job from the water crysal. [5 pts]

Scientific Genius You met Cid. [5 pts]

Our Only Hope You obtained a job from the fire crystal. [5 pts]

Couldn't Tell You discovered Faris’s true identity. [5 pts]

The Skies Are Yours! You obtained the airship. [5 pts]

The Return You obtained a job from the earth crystal. [5 pts]

Galuf's World You arrived in Galuf’s world. [5 pts]

Enough of a Beating You defeated Gilgamesh [5 pts]

Kupo! You met a moogle. [5 pts]

Lupine Attack You mastered lupine attack. [5 pts]

Under the Sea You obtained the submarine. [5 pts]

Not Dead Yet! Krile inherited Galuf’s power. [5 pts]

Morphing Time! You defeated Gilgamesh again. [5 pts]

Mwa-hahahaha! You defeated Exdeath. [5 pts]

Turtle! You reunited with Ghido in the third world. [5 pts]

Tablets in the Bag! You got the four tablets for unsealing the legendary weapons. [5 pts]

Lali-ho! You met the dwarves. [5 pts]

Made It! You pinned your hopes on Gilgamesh [5 pts]

Forget Something? You escaped from the final battle [5 pts]

Warriors of Light You defeated Neo Exdeath [5 pts]

The Real Latter You defeated Neo Exdeath without anyone in your party dying. [10 pts]

Dimensional Assassins You defeated Exdeath’s servants — assassins from another dimension. [5 pts]

Master Mimic You defeated the mime Gogo. [5 pts]

Mechanical Warrior You defeated Omega. [10 pts]

Mechanical Warrior II You defeated Omega Mk.II. [20 pts]

Demon Dragon You defeated Shinryu. [10 pts]

Neo Demon Dragon You defeated Neo Shinryu. [20 pts]

The Void You defeated Enuo. [30 pts]

Fallen Warrior You cleared the Cloister of the Dead. [40 pts]

Legendary Weapons You obtained the twelve legendary weapons. [5 pts]

Bronze Hunter You defeated 100 enemies. [5 pts]

Silver Hunter You defeated 300 enemies. [10 pts]

Gold Hunter You defeated 1,000 enemies. [15 pts]

Platinum Hunter You defeated 2,000 enemies. [20 pts]

Bestiary (32 Pages) You completed 10% of the Bestiary. [5 pts]

Bestiary (96 Pages) You completed 30% of the Bestiary. [10 pts]

Bestiary (192 Pages) You completed 60% of the Bestiary. [15 pts]

Bestiary (323 Pages) Defeat all monsters. [20 pts]

Low Cash Flow You earned 10,000 gil. [5 pts]

Gil Cave Time! You earned 50,000 gil. [10 pts]

Flush with Gil You earned 200,000 gil. [15 pts]

Gil to Burn You earned 500,000 gil. [20 pts]

Piano Master You mastered the piano by playing all the pianos. [5 pts]

Treasure Hunter Open all treasure chests. [5 pts]

Master of Attack & Defense All four characters mastered the knight job. [5 pts]

Don't Think, Feel! All four characters mastered the monk job. [5 pts]

Band of Thieves All four characters mastered the thief job. [5 pts]

Wind Rider All four characters mastered the dragoon job. [5 pts]

Ninja Legend All four characters mastered the ninja job. [5 pts]

Four Samurai All four characters mastered the samurai job. [5 pts]

Skull Buster All four characters mastered the berserker job. [5 pts]

Marksman All four characters mastered the ranger job. [5 pts]

One Deadly Blow All four characters mastered the mystic knight job. [5 pts]

Master of White Magic All four characters mastered the white mage job. [5 pts]

Master of Black Magic All four characters mastered the black mage job. [5 pts]

Master of Time and Space All four characters mastered the time mage job. [5 pts]

Master Summoner All four characters mastered the summoner job. [5 pts]

Learns from Monsters All four characters mastered the blue mage job. [5 pts]

Ebony and Ivory All four characters mastered the red mage job. [5 pts]

Catch and Release All four characters mastered the beastmaster job. [5 pts]

Trial and Error All four characters mastered the chemist job. [5 pts]

Child of the Earth All four characters mastered the geomancer job. [5 pts]

The Music Man All four characters mastered the bard job. [5 pts]

A One and a Two... All four characters mastered the dancer job. [5 pts]

Undead Freak All four characters mastered the necromancer job. [5 pts]

Prediction Machine All four characters mastered the oracle job. [5 pts]

Blistering Bombardment All four characters mastered the cannoneer job. [5 pts]

Battle Master All four characters mastered the gladiator job. [5 pts]

Master of Mimicry All four characters mastered the mime job. [5 pts]

Job Master All four characters mastered every job. [10 pts]

The Wind Calls You raised Bartz to level 10. [5 pts]

It's Not Over Yet You raised Bartz to level 25. [10 pts]

The Wind Won't Stop You raised Bartz to level 50. [20 pts]

Check Me Out! You raised Bartz to level 75. [30 pts]

Don't Mess With Me You raised Bartz to level 99. [40 pts]

Safe Journey! You raised Lenna to level 10. [5 pts]

A Promise to Return You raised Lenna to level 25. [10 pts]

Didn't Mean to Worry You You raised Lenna to level 50. [20 pts]

In Your Debt You raised Lenna to level 75. [30 pts]

Chancellor's Relief You raised Lenna to level 99. [40 pts]

Where Am I? You raised Galuf to level 10. [5 pts]

Give Me Strength You raised Galuf to level 25. [10 pts]

Thanks everyone! You raised Galuf to level 50. [20 pts]

Gotta Be Kidding You raised Galuf to level 75. [30 pts]

Gone Too Far! You raised Galuf to level 99. [40 pts]

(note: all achievements involving Galuf can be completed with Krile as well)

That Long Journey Smell You raised Faris to level 10. [5 pts]

Careful Captain! You raised Faris to level 25. [10 pts]

Times a-wasting! You raised Faris to level 50. [20 pts]

It'll work out! You raised Faris to level 75. [30 pts]

Look At Me Now! You raised Faris to level 99. [40 pts]
