<a id="s11"></a>

# 11. Skills

Skills are special abilities that characters and enemies may use. They are usually specific to a certain character or type of enemy, but some Skills may be usable by other entities for some reason or another. Skills are most often a result of a characters' training and experience in their chosen field, such as Chaz's unique attacks and Rune's magical spells. Unlike Techniques, Skills do not have a cost to use. Instead, each Skill has a stock, which depletes when the Skill is used. When a Skill has no stock available, it cannot be used. Resting at an Inn or using a Regen Platform will replenish all Skill stocks to their maximum value. Most Skills are learned when a character reaches the required Level, and begin with a stock of 1. Android Skills, however, which come in the form of weapon upgrades, must be found and installed before they can be used. A Skill's stock will increase at a certain rate as the character increases in Level. The first part of this section lists the different Skills available to each character, split into the three types of Skill, along with the Level at which they learn the Skills. The second part gives a description of each Skill available to the characters, split into the three different types, along with information on who or what can use the Skill. As some enemies may use certain Skills that characters may use, with slightly longer names, there may be an alternative Skill name following the list of enemies. The final part gives a description of each Skill that can only be used by enemies, listed in alphabetical order, along with information on which enemies can use the Skill. ----------------------------------------------
