<a id="s16-4"></a>

## 16.4. Rykros

Rykros is the fourth planet of the Algo system, and easily the smallest. It is generally unknown to the inhabitants of Algo, as it is kept invisible and undetectable for most of the time. In addition, the orbit of Rykros is highly elliptical, passing close to Algo only once every thousand years. When Rykros returns, it marks the weakening of the seal that is keeping The Profound Darkness confined in its dimension, but can only be found by using the light of the Aero-Prism. The Profound Darkness realises the danger that this planet poses to him, and uses Dark Force (in the guise of Seth) to discover its location. The Darkness then sends some of his strongest forces to Rykros in order to stop the party from acquiring the only items that can withstand his power. Rykros is home to only a few structures, each of which is forged from the natural crystal that covers the planet's surface. It is not populated by any humans, as its only inhabitants are ancient, powerful guardians whose sole purpose is to protect the Rings of the Stars and pass the knowledge of the past onto the chosen Protectors. Each of the beings on Rykros command one of the four structures of the planet. Le Roof is best described as the lord of Rykros, and his spiritual presence exists inside the Silence Temple. The other three are powerful entities that can provide the party with valuable gifts once they are satisfied that the party is worthy to receive them.
