<a id="s16-5"></a>

## 16.5. Towns and Villages

```
This section gives a brief description of each town a village in the game,
listed in alphabetical order. It will also include the stores and other
amenities that the settlements have to offer, and other important details.
Aiedo   - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  Southwest of Nalya and north of Kadary
          Key Areas: Inn, 2 Tool Stores, 4 Weapon Stores, 4 Armour Stores,
                     Hunters' Guild, Naura Cake Shop, Alys' House,
                     Tinkerbell's House, Prison
          Treasure:  1000 MST, TRIMATE


          The largest town in the game, Aiedo contains a whole host of
          stores, special locations and interesting people. It is best
          known as the site of the famous Hunters' Guild, and also houses
          a prison, a bar, a cemetery, Alys' house and the Naura Cake Shop.
          There is a fortune-teller that lives in the eastmost house, and
          shop music plays while you are inside. However, there is nothing
          you can buy and you won't get your fortune told, so it seems a
          little strange.


          The Market: This massive building in the centre of town houses a
            number of stores and the inn.

            Inn: 50 MST per character


            Tool Store #1         Tool Store #2         Tool Store #3
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            MONOMATE      20      TELEPIPE     130      ANTIDOTE      10
            DIMATE       160      ESCAPIPE      70      CURE-PARAL   120

            Weapon Store #1       Weapon Store #2       Weapon Store #3
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            DAGGER        40      HUNT-KNIFE   120      TITNDAGGER   240
            STEL-SWORD   280      SLASHER      160      TITN-SWORD   560
            BOOMERANG     80      CLAW        1000      TITNSLASHR   360
                                                        TITN-AXE     640
                                                        BROAD-AXE   1000

            Armour Store #1       Armour Store #2       Armour Store #3
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            LTHR-HELM     80      CRBN-HELM    200      TITN-HELM    570
            LTHR-CROWN    90      CRBN-CROWN   150      TITN-CROWN   490
            LTHR-BAND     70      CIRCLET      100      TITN-MAIL   1120
            LTHR-CLOTH   160      CRBN-SUIT     70      TITNSHIELD   600
            LTHRSHIELD   140      CRBNSHIELD   220


          The Hunters' Guild: Located near the centre of the north wall,
            this large building is the second home to the hunters. It
            contains the reception where jobs can be taken, a bar and a
            small theatre. The 1000 MST and the TRIMATE can be obtained
            from the small room all the way to the west from the theatre.
            Just south of the Hunters' Guild is another building, which is
            home to another two stores.

            Weapon Store          Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------
            CRMC-KNIFE  1600      GRPT-CROWN  1000
            CRMC-SWORD  3600      CRMC-HELM   1800
            SABER-CLAW  1700      GRPT-SUIT   1200
            STRUGGL-AX  4600      CRMC-MAIL   3700
                                  GRPTSHIELD   900
                                  CRMCSHIELD  2300


          Naura Cake Shop: This underground bakery can be found outside the
            town proper, in the basement of a hut on the other side of the
            northwest wall.

            Naura Cake Shop
            ----------------
            SHORTCAKE    280
            SHORTCAKE    280
            SHORTCAKE    280
            SHORTCAKE    280
            SHORTCAKE    280
            SHORTCAKE    280


          Alys' House: Situated in the northwest corner of Aiedo, this
            building is the party's home base. When entered, either Alys or
            Chaz will ask if the party should rest. Selecting 'Yes' fully
            restores the party for free. Alys' House is also the only place
            where the PENNANT and the WOODCARVIN can be used.


          Tinkerbell's House: This ordinary house is sited near the river
            in the southeast corner of the town, just to the left of the
            fortune-teller's house. It is the residence of Tinkerbell and
            her parents, involved in the second Hunters' Guild job.


          Prison: Directly north of the market, this detention centre is
            the focus of the fifth Hunters' Guild job, as the two daughters
            of the chief of Uzo are locked up here.
Jut     - Planet:    Dezolis
          Location:  Southwest of Gumbious Temple
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Weapon Store, Armour Store


          Jut is the only town on Dezolis, and is the main Dezolisian
          settlement. It is the site for a few shops and a large central
          church. This church is a little redundant with the Gumbious
          Temple so close by, and has no real purpose in the game.


          The Inn can be found in the southeast corner of Jut.

            Inn: 150 MST per character


          The Tool Store is in the lower west section of Jut, and the
          Weapon and Armour Stores are located in the northeast of town.

            Tool Store            Weapon Store          Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            TRIMATE      400      LACO-SWORD 20400      RFLC-MAIL  26800
            ANTIDOTE      10      LACODAGGER  9400      RFLC-ROBE  18400
            CURE-PARAL   120      LACO-CLAW  10200      RFLCSHIELD 15600
            TELEPIPE     130      LACOSLASHR 21600
            ESCAPIPE      70
Kadary  - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  North of Mile and south of Aiedo
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Zio's Church
          Treasure:  LASRSLASHR


          This small village is the site of Zio's cult following at the
          beginning of the game, due to its close proximity to Zio's Fort.
          After Zio's demise, the inhabitants that had fallen under the
          Black Magician's spell are left dazed and lost, and one of these
          unfortunate victims forms the basis for a Hunters' Guild job.
          There is a LASRSLASHR in the northeast building in Kadary, that
          can only be accessed by walking around the village wall.


          The Inn can be found in the southeast part of Kadary. In addition
          to its normal function, the party take the student girl back to
          this Inn after she collapses in the third Hunters' Guild job.

            Inn: 40 MST per character


          The Tool Store is located in the southwest of the village.

            Tool Store
            -----------------
            MONOMATE       20
            DIMATE        160
            ANTIDOTE       10
            CURE-PARAL    120
            TELEPIPE      130
            ESCAPIPE       70


          Zio's Church: Dominating the northwest corner of Kadary, this
            large church is the site of Zio's worship until he is defeated.
            It has no real purpose except in the third Hunters' Guild job,
            when the missing student from Piata can be found here.
Krup    - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  East of Molcum and south of Tonoe
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Armour Store


          A small and rather quaint village, Krup is Hahn's hometown and
          the place of residence of Hahn's father, mother and fiancee. It
          has a couple of small shops and allows some story developments,
          but it has no essential purpose beyond this. Hahn's parents live
          in the building containing the Armour Store, and Hahn's fiancee
          Saya teaches children at her home on the north side of Krup.
          Krup is also one of the possible sites for Rocky to be found in
          the second Hunters' Guild job.


          The Inn can be found in the southeast part of Krup. In addition
          to its normal function, the party take Alys back to this Inn
          after she is hit by Zio's Black Wave.

            Inn: 15 MST per character


          The Tool Store is on the east side of Krup, and the Armour Store
          is located in the west part of the village.

            Tool Store            Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------
            MONOMATE      20      CRBN-HELM    200
            ANTIDOTE      10      CRBN-CROWN   150
            TELEPIPE     130      CIRCLET      100
            ESCAPIPE      70      CRBN-SUIT     70
                                  CRBNSHIELD   140
Meese   - Planet:    Dezolis
          Location:  Southeast of Reshel
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Weapon Store, Armour Store, Clinic,
                     Perfume Store


          Meese is a fairly small Parmanian village, which is affected most
          by the Black Energy Wave before the Garuberk Tower is destroyed.
          When the party first enter this village, the only area of any
          importance (apart from the usual amenities) is the clinic. There
          is also a Perfume Store that is locked due to the epidemic, and
          won't become accessible until the Garuberk Tower is no more. The
          party will first meet the Espers here, and will also lose Raja
          as he falls ill from the Black Energy Wave.


          The Inn is located in the southwest corner of Meese.

            Inn: 140 MST per character


          The Tool Store is on the west side of Meese, and the Weapon and
          Armour Stores are inside the building in the northwest corner.

            Tool Store            Weapon Store          Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            DIMATE       160      FLAMESWORD 12900      RFLC-MAIL  26800
            ANTIDOTE      10      THUNDRCLAW  8500      RFLCSHIELD 15600
            CURE-PARAL   120      TORNDDAGGR  8300
            TELEPIPE     130      DREAM-ROD   5400
            ESCAPIPE      70


          The Clinic: Found in the southeast part of the village, this
            former Inn is now a small hospital for the sick residents of
            Meese. The party can interact with any of the people in the
            building, but they must speak to the off-duty Esper in the
            right-hand upstairs room to move the story along. It is here
            that Raja will fall ill and leave the party, and subsequently
            where they will learn of Kyra's attempt to get through the
            carnivorous trees surrounding the Garuberk Tower.


          Perfume Store: Until the Garuberk Tower is destroyed, the Perfume
            Store is closed due to the Black Energy Wave. After this, the
            party can sample the unique delights of this store's wares.

            Perfume Store
            -----------------
            MOON-DEW     5000
            STAR-DEW    10000
            SOL-DEW     20000
Mile    - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  South of Kadary and northeast of Piata
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Weapon Store, Armour Store, Sand Worm
                     Ranch


          This village is the first area in which the party will be able to
          purchase equipment. Beyond this, it has no other special function
          until the party accept the first Hunters' Guild job. When the
          huge hole appears on Motavia at the end of the game, the people
          in Mile are all killed by the intense Black Energy Wave that the
          hole produces.


          The Inn is located in the southeast corner of Mile.

            Inn: 10 MST per character


          The Tool Store is in the centre of the village, and the Weapon
          and Armour Stores are to be found on the north side of Mile.

            Tool Store            Weapon Store          Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            MONOMATE      20      DAGGER        40      LTHR-HELM     80
            ANTIDOTE      10      HUNT-KNIFE   120      LTHR-CROWN    90
                                  STEL-SWORD   280      LTHR-BAND     70
                                  BOOMERANG     80      LTHRSHIELD   140
                                  SLASHER      160


          Sand Worm Ranch: This area has no special attraction when the
            party first see it, as the worms that the rancher is breeding
            are only at an infant stage. After taking the first Hunters'
            Guild job, the party must speak to the ranch owner and can then
            enter the ranch itself. Here they must fight and defeat a Sand
            Worm (easier than its wild cousins) to complete the mission.
Molcum  - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  South of Zema and west of Krup
          Key Areas: -


          This village is dead, once home to a group of Motavians but now
          burnt to the ground by Zio. The party originally go to Molcum to
          obtain the ALSHLINE, but find that there is none there. By way of
          compensation, however, this is the first encounter with Rune, and
          he joins the party in this village.
Monsen  - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  South of Kadary and northeast of Piata
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Crack, Eddie's House

          The village of Monsen is plagued by earthquakes when the party
          first visit. This is caused by a malfunction in the Plate System
          to the northeast. Due to the recent tremors, there is a large
          crack in the ground in the southeast corner of the village, but
          the only other point of interest is that Monsen is one of the
          possible sites for Rocky to be found in the second Guild job.


          The Inn can be found in the west part of Monsen.

            Inn: 45 MST per character


          The Tool Store is located in the south area of the village.

            Tool Store
            -----------------
            MONOMATE       20
            DIMATE        160
            ANTIDOTE       10
            CURE-PARAL    120
            TELEPIPE      130
            ESCAPIPE       70


          Crack: This rip in the ground is blocked by a sign when the party
            first encounter it, but it can be accessed after speaking to
            Eddie in the fourth Hunters' Guild job. It leads to The Hole.


          Eddie's House: Located on the east side of the village, the party
            must visit this house in order to speak to Eddie in the fourth
            Hunters' Guild job. It is home to Eddie and her son, Tallas.
Nalya   - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  Northeast of Aiedo and southwest of Wreckage
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store


          This village is one of the few in the game that has no direct
          connection with any part of the story. After a metallic object
          crashed into the ground nearby a few months ago, half of the
          settlement was destroyed. The few people who remain in Nalya
          try to continue a fairly normal life, but they are constantly
          wary of their uninvited neighbour.


          The Inn can be found in the southeast corner of Nalya.

            Inn: 25 MST per character


          The Tool Store is located in the south area of the village.

            Tool Store
            -----------------
            MONOMATE       20
            ANTIDOTE       10
Piata   - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  South of Mile and northeast of Uzo
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Motavia Academy, Dormitory


          The game begins in this town, on the second floor of Motavia
          Academy. Piata is informally known as the Town of Learning, and
          is a popular location for scholars. After a research team, sent
          by the academy, returned from an expedition to Birth Valley, the
          town became surrounded by monsters. This situation is the cause
          of Chaz's and Alys' presence in Piata at the beginning.


          The Inn can be found in the southeast corner of Nalya.

            Inn: 5 MST per character


          The Tool Store is located in the south area of the village.

            Tool Store
            -----------------
            MONOMATE       20


          Motavia Academy: The large building on the north side of Piata is
            the renowned Motavia Academy, and is the centre of knowledge
            for all Motavia. The party begin in the academy, their first
            port of call being the principal's office at the back of the
            second floor. The stairs on the ground floor lead to the first
            dungeon of the game, and this is where Hahn joins the party.


          Dormitory: In the third Hunters' Guild mission, the party must
            speak to the caretaker of the dormitory to learn of the missing
            student. It can be found in the northwest corner of town.
Reshel  - Planet:    Dezolis
          Location:  East of Zosa and northwest of Meese
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Armour Store


          During the snowstorm on Dezolis, Reshel is a dead town inhabited
          only by Zombies. Once the snowstorm has been abated, however,
          those people that escaped to Meese return to rebuild their small
          village. To begin with, only the Armour Store is open. After the
          party have defeated the third Dark Force, Reshel is once again
          fully restored to its normal state. Apart from this, there is
          nothing particularly special about this village.


          The Inn, after the third Dark Force is defeated, is found in the
          south part of Reshel.

            Inn: 130 MST per character


          The Tool store is open after the Aero-Prism is acquired, and is
          found in the northeast corner of the village. The Armour Store is
          one of the first buildings rebuilt after the Garuberk Tower is
          destroyed, and is located in the southwest.

            Tool Store            Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------
            TRIMATE      400      LACO-HELM  13800
            ANTIDOTE      10      LACO-CROWN 15000
            CURE-PARAL   120      LACOCIRCLT  9600
            TELEPIPE     130      LACO-MAIL  43800
            ESCAPIPE      70      LACOSHIELD 20400
Ryuon   - Planet:    Dezolis
          Location:  North of Raja Temple and southeast of Tyler
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Weapon Store, Armour Store,
                     Gyuna's Bar


          A small village, and likely to be the first that the party visit
          after landing on Dezolis, Ryuon is a Dezolisian village of no
          special purpose. The only area of interest in the village is
          Gyuna's bar, as this is where the party learn how to acquire the
          Landale in Tyler.


          The Inn is located in the southeast corner of Ryuon.

            Inn: 100 MST per character


          The Tool Store is in the northwest corner, and the Weapon and
          Armour Stores are in the building to the north of the village.

            Tool Store            Weapon Store          Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            MONOMATE      20      FORCE-CANE  2500      SILV-MANTL  7300
            DIMATE       160      SILV-ROD    2700      SILVCIRCLT  3000
            ANTIDOTE      10
            CURE-PARAL   120
            TELEPIPE     130
            ESCAPIPE      70


          Gyuna's Bar: This establisment, located on the east side of the
            village, is Raja's favourite drinking den. Its proprietor,
            Gyuna, is a fount of knowledge, and informs the party of the
            means to get into the hanger beneath Tyler.
Termi   - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  Southeast of Monsen and northeast of Ladea Tower
          Key Areas: Inn, Armour Store, Bayamare Gift Shop


          This village is famous as a prime tourist destination, mainly
          because of its devotion to the heroine Alis. There is a statue
          of Alis in the north section of the town, and the renowned
          Bayamare Gift Shop is also here. Also, Termi is one of the
          possible sites for Rocky to be found in the second Guild job.


          The Inn can be found in the southwest corner of Termi.

            Inn: 50 MST per character


          The Armour Store is located in the east part of the village.

            Armour Store
            -----------------
            PSY-CROWN    2800
            PSY-CIRCLT   1200
            PSY-MAIL     7400
            PSY-SHIELD   4600


          Bayamare Gift Shop: This unique boutique is situated in the
          northwest corner of Termi, and houses a number of items that
          have very special functions. Two of the items are essential for
          Hunters' Guild jobs, and the other two can be used to decorate
          Alys' house in Aiedo.

            Bayamare Gift Shop
            -----------------
            ALIS-SWORD    500
            PEROLYMATE     40
            PENNANT       600
            WOODCARVIN   3000
Tonoe   - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  North of Krup (through Valley Maze)
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Weapon Store, Armour Store


          This village was created as the refuge for the Motavians after
          Zio destroyed Molcum. It is hidden between a mountain range and
          protected by a twisting valley that is sealed off by a rock.
          The party must go to this village to obtain the ALSHLINE, and it
          is also the location that Gryz first joins the party. The tent
          at the back of the village houses the entrance to the warehouse
          basement where the ALSHLINE is stored.


          The Inn is located in the southwest corner of Tonoe.

            Inn: 15 MST per character


          The Tool, Weapon and Armour Stores are found as stalls in the
          market in the southeast corner of the village.

            Tool Store            Weapon Store          Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            MONOMATE      20      HUNT-KNIFE   120      CIRCLET      100
            ANTIDOTE      10      TITNDAGGER   240      TITN-HELM    570
            CURE-PARAL   120      STEL-SWORD   280      CRBN-SUIT    550
            TELEPIPE     130      TITN-SWORD   560      TITN-MAIL   1120
            ESCAPIPE      70      SLASHER      160      CRBNSHIELD   220
                                  TITNSLASHR   360      TITNSHIELD   600
Torinco - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  Island south of Termi
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Culvers' House, Sekreas' House


          This optional village is located on an island south of Termi. It
          is a simple agricultural community that has been afflicted by a
          serious threat in recent times. A flock of vicious birds has
          started eating up all the fields, and the villagers are worried.
          Two of the Hunters' Guild jobs are centred around Torinco, but it
          has no other special purpose beyond these.


          The Inn is located in the southwest corner of Torinco.

            Inn: 90 MST per character


          The Tool store is to be found in the south part of the village.

            Tool Store
            ----------------
            TRIMATE      400
            ANTIDOTE      10
            CURE-PARAL   120
            TELEPIPE     130
            ESCAPIPE      70


          Culvers' House: The sixth Hunters' Guild job takes the party to
            the house of Mr. Culvers, located in the northwest corner of
            Torinco. His son has fallen ill, and the party must bring him
            something from Termi in an attempt to make him better.


          Sekreas' House: The man behind the bird outbreak is Mr. Sekreas,
            who lives on the east side of the village. Although he sends a
            request to the Guild for the birds to be exterminated, it turns
            out that his real intention is a little different. The party
            must speak to Mr. Sekreas in the seventh Hunters' Guild job.
Tyler   - Planet:    Dezolis
          Location:  Northwest of Ryuon and southwest of Zosa
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Weapon Store, Armour Store, Grave


          This small village was the first settlement of the Parmanians
          after they crashed on Dezolis. Out of respect for their captian,
          Tyler, they named the village for him and built a huge monument
          in his honour. The party are led to this village on the trail of
          a spaceship to take them to Kuran.


          The Inn is located in the southeast corner of Tyler.

            Inn: 110 MST per character


          The Tool Store is located in the centre of the village, and the
          Weapon and Armour Stores can be found in the northeast.

            Tool Store            Weapon Store          Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            MONOMATE      20      CRMC-SWORD  3600      SILVCIRCLT  3000
            DIMATE       160      CRMC-KNIFE  1600      SILV-HELM   3800
            ANTIDOTE      10      SILV-ROD    2700      SILV-CROWN  5000
            CURE-PARAL   120      SILV-MAIL  13200
            TELEPIPE     130      SILV-MANTL  7300
            ESCAPIPE      70      SILVSHIELD  7200


          Grave: Unless the party speak to Gyuna about the spaceship, the
            grave located in the west section of the village will have no
            purpose. However, once the party have learned of the ship's
            location, examining the grave will cause it to open and reveal
            the entrance to the Hanger.
Uzo     - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  Island southwest of Piata
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Chief's House


          This village is located on a small island to the southwest of
          Piata. Its only link to the story is that it is the source of the
          fifth Hunters' Guild job.


          The Inn is located in the northeast corner of Uzo.

            Inn: 80 MST per character


          The Tool store can be found in the southeast part of the village.

            Tool Store
            ----------------
            TRIMATE      400
            ANTIDOTE      10
            CURE-PARAL   120
            TELEPIPE     130
            ESCAPIPE      70


          Chief's House: The fifth Hunters' Guild job leads them to the
            house of the chief of Uzo, whose daughters have gone missing.
            They must speak to the chief to get clues about his daughters'
            whereabouts.
Zema    - Planet:    Motavia
          Location:  Northeast of Mile and south of Nalya
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Weapon Store, Armour Store,
                     Old Man's House


          This village begins as a gallery of stone statues, having been
          recently visited by Zio. Zema is the gateway to Birth Valley,
          where a research team from Piata had gone missing. The party
          must go to Zema to find Professor Holt, but his rocky nature
          takes them on a short quest to obtain Alshline. Once they find
          this medicine, they can return Zema to its normal state. As if
          Zema didn't have enough problems, it also becomes overrun by
          machines later in the game, and this gives rise to the eighth
          Hunters' Guild job.


          The Inn is located in the eastern part of Zema.

            Inn: 20 MST per character


          The Tool Store is situated in the southeast corner of Zema, and
          the Weapon and Armour Stores can be found in the west part.

            Tool Store            Weapon Store          Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            MONOMATE      20      HUNT-KNIFE   120      CIRCLET      100
            ANTIDOTE      10      STEL-SWORD   280      CRBN-SUIT    550
            CURE-PARAL   120      SLASHER      160      GRPT-SUIT   1200
            TELEPIPE     130      BROAD-AXE   1000      CRBNSHIELD   220
            ESCAPIPE      70                            GRPTSHIELD   900


          Old Man's House: After the village is populated with mechanical
            monsters, an old man sends a request to the Guild. In the
            eighth Hunters' Guild job, the party must visit the old man,
            who lives in a house in the northeast corner of Zema, to learn
            more about the situation.
Zosa    - Planet:    Dezolis
          Location:  Northeast of Tyler and west of Reshel
          Key Areas: Inn, Tool Store, Weapon Store, Armour Store,
                     Penguin Man


          This unusual Dezolisian village has no special function in the
          game, but it is a useful place to pick up some new equipment
          after the first encounter with Dark Force. It is also home to the
          strange Dezolis Penguin, and is the only place from which
          PENGU-FEED may be purchased.


          The Inn is located in the southwest corner of Meese.

            Inn: 120 MST per character


          The Tool Store is on the west side of Meese, and the Weapon and
          Armour Stores are inside the building in the northwest corner.
          Also note that teleportation is impossible within the Tool Store.

            Tool Store            Weapon Store          Armour Store
            ----------------      ----------------      ----------------
            DIMATE       160      FLAMESWORD 12900      PHANTAROBE  8400
            ANTIDOTE      10      THUNDRCLAW  8500
            CURE-PARAL   120      TORNDDAGGR  8300
            TELEPIPE     130      DREAM-ROD   5400
            ESCAPIPE      70
            PENGU-FEED   800


          Penguin Man: This unusual Dezolisian can be found in the west of
            the village. For 500 MST, he will loan you a Dezolis Penguin.
            The penguin leaves you if the party enter a building or exit
            Zosa, and it has no real purpose at all.
```
