<a id="s16-7"></a>

## 16.7. Dungeons

```
Most of the sheltered area in the game is in the form of dungeons. There
are really three types of dungeon, although these types are merely cosmetic
and have no bearing at all upon the game mechanics. These types are caves
(such as Passageway and Hanger), hi-tech dungeons (such as Kuran and Vahal
Fort), and fortifications (such as Warehouse Basement and Air Castle). The
Edge has no real classification as it is extra-dimensional, so it does not
fit into any of these types.

This section gives details (similar to those in the walkthrough) of each of
the 28 dungeons in the game, listed in alphabetical order, plus brief
descriptions of them all.
Academy      Enemies:  Xanafalgue, Zoran Bult
Basement     Treasure: MONOMATE, 100 MST, ANTIDOTE
             Boss:     Igglanova

             Location: Beneath Motavia Academy in Piata
             Type:     Fortification


             The first and easiest dungeon of the game, this area acts as a
             training centre for familiarising yourself with the battle
             system. It is a simple dungeon that spans three small floors.
             The principal of the academy commissions Alys and Chaz to rid
             the basement of the monsters, although it is discovered later
             that the academy is responsible for the monsters' presence in
             the first place. An Igglanova is the boss of this dungeon,
             providing a good test of the party's skills in a harder fight.
Air          Enemies:  Bladeright, DimensWorm, FrostSaber, Spector,
Castle                 StoneHeads
             Treasure: 1000 MST, TRIMATE, 2000 MST, TRIMATE, 4000 MST,
                       SWIFT-HELM, GENOCYCLAW, ESCAPIPE, 8000 MST, SOL-DEW
             Boss:     Xe-A-Thoul x3

             Location: In the asteroid belt occupying Parma's former orbit
             Type:     Fortification


             The Air Castle is all that remains of the planet of Parma, as
             it once floated in the clouds above the planet's surface. It
             is now a dead structure, although it strangely supports stable
             gravity and a breathable atmosphere. The castle is a sprawling
             maze that covers two large levels, occasionally requiring the
             party to leave the actual castle and make their way outside,
             either on the ground or on the roof. The party must visit this
             dangerous dungeon to recover the ECLPSTORCH, but in order to
             do that they must break the invisible barrier that blocks the
             entrance to the basement. This requires the defeat of a trio
             of powerful witches, known as Xe-A-Thouls. This boss battle
             concludes the trek through the upper castle.
Air          Enemies:  Bladeright, DimensWorm, FrostSaber, Spector,

Castle                 StoneHeads, ChaosSorcr
Basement     Treasure: MOON-DEW, STAR-DEW, ECLPSTORCH
             Boss:     Lashiec

             Location: Beneath Air Castle, past the invisible barrier
             Type:     Fortification


             After the Xe-A-Thouls are defeated in the main castle, the
             invisible barrier that they were generating is neutralized.
             The party can then enter this new dungeon. The second stage
             of the Air Castle is a little easier to traverse than the
             first, as it is far more straightforward. Although it covers a
             total of five floors, each floor consists only of a simple
             layout of passages and is fairly linear. After making their
             way through the basement, the party will need to face the lord
             of the dungeon, a reincarnated king of the past known as
             Lashiec. This tough boss battle ends the Air Castle saga, and
             the subsequent explosion also ends the Air Castle itself.
Anger        Enemies:  Bladeright, BloodSaber, CrminHeads, Dark Witch,
Tower                  Hakenleft, Illusionst, Twinarms
             Treasure: GUARD-MAIL, SOL-DEW, MEGID (Technique)
             Boss:     Alys, (Re-Faze)

             Location: West of the Courage Tower on Rykros
             Type:     Fortification


             The site of one of the side quests, the Anger Tower is only
             accessible after the sword ELSYDEON has been acquired. It is
             the smallest of the three towers on Rykros, covering only a
             mere three floors. The sub-boss of the Anger Tower is the
             illusion of Alys that Chaz must fight alone. After the defeat
             of this unexpected foe, the true guardian of the tower reveals
             himself. Re-Faze will pose a question to Chaz, that must be
             answered correctly. The right answer will give Chaz the most
             powerful Technique, MEGID, but the wrong answer will begin a
             battle with Re-Faze that inevitably leads to Chaz's defeat.
Birth        Enemies:  FlattrPlnt, Xanafalgue, Zoran Bult
Valley       Treasure: CRBNSHIELD, MONOMATE, CRBN-SUIT
             Boss:     -

             Location: In the mountains behind Zema
             Type:     Cave


             Following the party's disposal of the monsters in the academy
             basement, they journey to this dungeon to attempt to rescue
             Hahn's teacher, Professor Holt. Birth Valley is a fairly small
             cave that only covers two levels. It doesn't really provide
             any extra challenge as the second dungeon of the game, and has
             no boss to deal with. After the party find the stone form of
             Professor Holt, they then head off to find ALSHLINE.
Bio-Plant    Enemies:  Arm Drone, FlattrPlnt, Gicefalgue, Guilgenova,
                       Ismounos, Neowhistle, Sensor Bit
             Treasure: CURE-PARAL, GRPT-CROWN, CRMC-SWORD, ANTIDOTE
             Boss:     -

             Location: In the mountains behind Zema, through Birth Valley
             Type:     Hi-tech dungeon


             Once the party have used the ALSHLINE on the inhabitants of
             Zema and Birth Valley, and the Igglanova that emerges from
             Birth Valley has been defeated, the entrance to this dungeon
             is revealed. The door that Professor Holt was blocking at the
             back of Birth Valley leads to the Bio-Plant, as the Professor
             has disappeared into the depths of this dungeon, which is the
             first hi-tech area of the game. This considerably larger
             dungeon spans four floors, but fortunately has no boss at its
             end. The completion of this dungeon introduces Rika to the
             party, and entails the discovery of the problems with the
             control systems on Motavia.
Climate      Enemies:  Arthropod, Debugger, Dragerduel, ProtectBit,
Control                Wiredine
Centre       Treasure: REPAIR-KIT, PULSEVULCN, 5000 MST, COMPO-GEAR,
                       REPAIR-KIT, COMPO-ARMR
             Boss:     Gy-Laguiah, D-Elm-Lars

             Location: Northeast of Zosa and north of Reshel
             Type:     Hi-tech dungeon


             The Climate Control Centre is an optional dungeon, that the
             party may enter to expand the story a little, earn some more
             EXP, and acquire a few useful items. It is guarded by a
             Gy-Laguiah (much easier than its first appearance in the Ladea
             Tower), that the party are forced to fight as soon as they
             enter the Climate Control Centre. The area covers 3 floors,
             ending with the main terminal and an unexpected welcome party.
             It turns out that the Darkness anticipated the party would
             explore the centre in light of the snowstorm, and placed the
             witch D-Elm-Lars as a trap for the party. They must defeat the
             witch, after which they learn that there is nothing wrong with
             the system at all.
Courage      Enemies:  Bladeright, BloodSaber, CrminHeads, Dark Witch,
Tower                  Hakenleft, Illusionst, Le-Faw-Gan, Twinarms
             Treasure: STAR-DEW, STAR-DEW, GUARD-MAIL, GUARDARMOR,
                       GUARD-ROBE, RYKR-RING, ALGO-RING
             Boss:     Sa-Lews

             Location: Southeast of the Silence Temple on Rykros
             Type:     Fortification


             Le Roof's test for the Protectors is to pass the scrutiny of
             the guardians that inhabit the Strength Tower and the Courage
             Tower. The two towers are very similar, each having five small
             floors of the same size. The Courage Tower is purple in colour
             and is watched over by Sa-Lews, who resides on the top floor.
Garuberk     Enemies:  DarkMaraud, D-Elm-Lars, Ghoul, Hakenleft,
Tower                  King Saber, Radhin
             Treasure: TRIMATE, POW-SHIELD, TRIMATE, MOONSLASHR, STAR-DEW,
                       MOON-DEW, ESCAPIPE, STAR-DEW
             Boss:     Dark Force

             Location: Northeast of Meese, past the Carnivorous Trees
             Type:     Fortification


             Shortly before the unceasing snowstorm began on Dezolis, the
             Garuberk Tower appeared to the northeast of the land, guarded
             by a thick forest of carnivorous trees. Inhabitants of the
             planet are convinced the two incidents are related, and this
             opinion is voiced very strongly by Raja until he falls sick.
             After the party have gained access to the tower, they must
             battle their way through its organic and enemy-infested
             interior to find the source of the problem. This is a very
             difficult dungeon with a few little puzzling elements, and
             spans a total of ## large floors. The second form of Dark
             Force is found on the top of the Garuberk Tower, and its
             defeat brings about the end of the snowstorm.
Hanger       Enemies:  Gerotlux, Helex, Snow Slug
             Treasure: DIMATE, ZIRC-GEAR
             Boss:     -

             Location: Beneath Tyler, via the grave in the village
             Type:     Cave


             Beneath the grave of Tyler is a secret passage that leads to
             the Landale. This dungeon is very small, only covering one
             floor, and has no purpose other than a thoroughfare.
Island       Enemies:  Flame Newt, Fract Ooze, Jr.Ooze, Shrieker
Cave         Treasure: ESCAPIPE, SOL-DEW, TRIMATE, MOON-DEW, STAR-DEW,
                       AERO-PRISM
             Boss:     Dark Force

             Location: On the island east of Krup
             Type:     Cave


             In order to reach the Soldiers' Temple, where the Aero-Prism
             is supposed to lie, the party must trek through the cavern
             beneath. The Island Cave is a maze-like dungeon that covers
             four floors, and is inhabited by some tough Biomonsters. It
             is advisable to make good use of Seth's Skills in this place,
             as he will have no use of them once the party leave.
Kuran        Enemies:  CommndBall, C-Ray Tube, FloatMine, Piercer,
                       Sat.Minion, Siren386
             Treasure: HIJAMMER (Skill), REPAIR-KIT, ZIRCOARMER, 3000 MST,
                       REPAIR-KIT, NAPALMSHOT
             Boss:     Dark Force

             Location: Artificial satellite in Dezolis' orbit
             Type:     Hi-tech dungeon


             After discovering that Zelan is not the cause of the problems
             on Motavia, the party are told that its support satellite,
             Kuran, is responsible. Kuran is in Stealth Mode when the party
             first try to locate it, but once they disengage this they head
             to the satellite. After the crash on Dezolis and the recovery
             of a new spaceship, the party finally arrive at this dungeon.
             It spans four floors, each split into separate smaller areas,
             and the party must head through and around the satellite to
             reach the central control system at its core. It is here that
             they encounter the first incarnation of Dark Force, and begin
             to restore some stability in the system again.
Ladea        Enemies:  Centaur, FlyScreamr, Haunt, Ripper, ShadowSabr
Tower        Treasure: DIMATE, STAR-DEW, ESCAPIPE, FRADEMANTL, STAR-DEW,
                       1000 MST, PSYCO-WAND
             Boss:     Gy-Laguiah

             Location: Southwest of Termi
             Type:     Fortification


             This ancient structure sits on a peninsula overlooking the
             sea, and is home to a powerful weapon. Shortly following Alys'
             debilitation, the party decide to find Rune. Gryz suggests
             that Rune may have gone to the Ladea Tower with Grandfather
             Dorin, so this is the party's destination. This tall structure
             has five stories, each reasonably small. After meeting Rune on
             the third floor, the party must head to the top of the tower
             to recover the Psycho-wand. It is here that they meet one of
             Zio's minions, and must defeat it in order to escape.
Mysterious   Enemies:  HungryMole, Skytiara, Tech-Plant
Valley       Treasure: TRIMATE, STAR-DEW, SILVR-TUSK
             Boss:     -

             Location: North of Tyler and northwest of Zosa
             Type:     Cave


             An optional, but important dungeon, the party can enter this
             unusual cave at any time. The Mysterious Valley is home to a
             number of enemies and a fair few friends. It only covers one
             floor, and is not particularly large, so the party shouldn't
             take too much time finding its feline inhabitants. The Musk
             Cats are an ancient species that are capable of speech. After
             being granted entry, the party must speak to the Chief. The
             Musk Cat Chief gives the party Rika's ultimate weapon in the
             game - the Silver Tusk.
Nurvus       Enemies:  Balduel, Blauzen, Centaur, FloatMine, Greneris,
                       Tarantella, TechMaster, Tower, Zios Guard
             Treasure: WAVE-SHOT, REPAIR-KIT, CRMC-GEAR, SPACEDARMR,
                       PLSM-CLAW
             Boss:     Zio

             Location: Under Zio's Fort, behind the invisible barrier
             Type:     Hi-tech dungeon


             A sizeable part of the early game is spent trying to gain
             access to this dungeon in order to shut it down. Nurvus is
             the main control centre for all the Motavian systems, and it
             is because of this fact that Zio built his great fort directly
             on top of it. Zio's plan is to destroy Motavia, and it is
             through Nurvus that he intends to carry out this plan. The
             party must get into the heart of Nurvus, which covers a total
             of four floors split into various areas. It is at the main
             terminal that the party must defeat Zio once and for all,
             after which Demi plugs herself in to shut down Nurvus and try
             to restore its normal function.
Passageway   Enemies:  Meta Slug, Speard, Zol Slug
             Treasure: DIMATE, CURE-PARAL
             Boss:     -

             Location: North of Aiedo and northwest of Kadary
             Type:     Cave


             Due to the quicksand north of Mile, the party are unable to
             take the direct route to Zio's Fort after Rika joins the
             party. Instead, they must take a detour through the mountains
             north and west of Aiedo to get to Zio's Fort from the north.
             The Passageway leads them through the mountains, but it is
             protected by dangerous slimes and cohorts of Zio. It spans
             only one floor, but it is a large area with some dead-ends
             along the way. At lower levels, the party must be especially
             wary of leaving two Zol Slugs unattended, as their fused form
             as the Meta Slug can be dangerous to inexperienced characters.
Plate        Enemies:  Gunner Bit, Loader, Seeker, Slave, Worker Pod
System       Treasure: REPAIR-KIT, CRMC-ARMOR, TITN-GEAR, PHONON (Skill),
                       LASR-AXE, LASRBARRIR, LASR-KNIFE, STUN-SHOT
             Boss:     -

             Location: Northeast of Monsen and north of Termi
             Type:     Hi-tech dungeon


             The village of Molcum has been plagued by earthquakes for many
             weeks, and Demi determines that the Plate System must be the
             cause. The party can enter this dungeon to help out the people
             of Molcum, but it is not necessary to complete the game. The
             Plate System spans four floors in total, and is a fairly
             straightforward dungeon. Demi shuts down the system when they
             reach the main console, after which the quakes are abated.
Rappy Cave   Enemies:  Blue Rappy, Rappy
             Treasure: -
             Boss:     King Rappy

             Location: East of Torinco
             Type:     Cave


             Following a spate of attacks on the fields around Torinco by a
             terrifying flock of strange birds, a request is sent to the
             Hunters' Guild for help. The party must enter the Rappy Cave
             to seek out and destroy the boss bird, but the events that
             unfold inside are certainly unexpected. The Rappy Cave is a
             fairly small dungeon, only covering one floor. At the end of
             the cave is King Rappy, whom the party must fight.
Sacred       Enemies:  Phantom
Sword Cave   Treasure: ELSYDEON
             Boss:     -

             Location: Behind Lutz's room, under Esper Mansion
             Type:     Cave


             After the last battle with the forces of Darkness, the sacred
             sword Elsydeon was locked away in a secret vault under the
             Esper Mansion. Only a select few are aware of its existence
             and its power. After Chaz gets a little upset on Rykros, Rune
             thinks that it is time for Chaz to realise his destiny, and he
             takes the party to the Esper Mansion. Only Chaz is permitted
             to enter the Sacred Sword Cave, but its only inhabitants are
             Phantoms which are not difficult to defeat. The cave covers
             two small floors, and at the bottom is the sword itself.
Strength     Enemies:  Bladeright, BloodSaber, CrminHeads, Dark Witch,
Tower                  Hakenleft, Illusionst, Le-Faw-Gan, Twinarms
             Treasure: MOON-DEW, GUARD-ROD, GUARD-CLAW, GUARD-CLAW,
                       MOON-DEW, PALMA-RING, MOTA-RING, DEZO-RING
             Boss:     De-Vars

             Location: Northwest of the Silence Temple on Rykros
             Type:     Fortification


             Le Roof's test for the Protectors is to pass the scrutiny of
             the guardians that inhabit the Strength Tower and the Courage
             Tower. The two towers are very similar, each having five small
             floors of the same size. The Strength Tower is red in colour
             and is watched over by De-Vars, who resides on the top floor.
The Edge     Enemies:  BlindHeads, ChaosBrngr, Dark Rider, Gi-Le-Farg,
                       Imagiomage, Outerbeast, Prophallus, Soldrfiend
             Treasure: -
             Boss:     Profound Darkness

             Location: In the huge hole southwest of Mile
             Type:     Extra-dimensional area


             This is the final dungeon of the game, and easily the most
             unusual. The hole that appears in Motavia at the end of the
             game is caused by The Profound Darkness in an attempt to
             free itself after eons of imprisonment. The party must enter
             the rift between the dimensions to find the Darkness and
             defeat it once and for all. The Edge is populated by some of
             the toughest Darkspawn and Evil Beings of the game, including
             the dreaded Prophallus on the lower levels. It covers eight
             'floors', each comprising walkways of energy on a backdrop of
             twisting colours. The party must find their way through this
             maze in order to reach the final boss of the game.
The Hole     Enemies:  Zol Slug, Meta Slug
             Treasure: -
             Boss:     Fract Ooze

             Location: Under the crack in Monsen
             Type:     Cave


             Due to the earthquakes occuring in and around Monsen, a large
             crack appeared inside the village. Only during the fourth
             Hunters' Guild job can the party examine the crack closely,
             and discover a network of tunnels beneath. The Hole, found
             under Monsen, is populated entirely by slimes. The party must
             search the dungeon to find the boy Tallas, but before they do
             they have to fight the most powerful of the slimes. After its
             defeat, Tallas seems to appear from nowhere. The party are
             rather amazed that the boy was inside the Fract Ooze, and that
             he doesn't seem the least bit bothered by it.
Vahal Fort   Enemies:  Browren486, Jurafaduel, Goldine, LifeDeletr,
                       VopalSphre, Dominator
             Treasure: REPAIR-KIT, PHOTNERASR, LACO-GEAR, LACO-ARMOR,
                       POSIBOLT (Skill)
             Boss:     Dominator x 3

             Location: On the island west of Nalya and north of Tonoe
             Type:     Hi-tech dungeon


             The Daughter Project, thought abandoned during its prototype
             stage, was developed over a thousand years ago to take over
             control of Algo's systems should Mother Brain be destroyed.
             With the later creation of Zelan to manage Algo, Daughter was
             forgotten. However, the initial Daughter had already been
             built, but had lain dormant in the depths of Vahal Fort due to
             suppression by Nurvus. After the party shut Nurvus down, the
             link is severed and Daughter comes online. It attempts to send
             commands to the system as it was programmed to do, but as it
             was never connected to the network its commands are not
             received. Assuming that the AIs responsible for the systems
             must be behind their refusal to cooperate, Daughter sends out
             forces to remove the 'rogue' machines. The party must travel
             to Vahal Fort in order to stop the machines that are being
             sent from it, and determine what had happened. Vahal Fort is
             a large dungeon, covering four floors, and contains the most
             powerful machines in the game. The party must find Daughter at
             the heart of Vahal Fort and shut it down.
Valley       Enemies:  Blob, Carrion Cr, Sand Newt
Maze         Treasure: ANTIDOTE, 300 MST
             Boss:     -

             Location: North of Krup and south of Tonoe
             Type:     Cave


             After Molcum was burned to the ground by Zio, the Motavians
             that survived fled into the mountains to the northeast. The
             settlement that they established became known as Tonoe, and it
             was safe from the outside world owing to a stretch of twisting
             passages that was the only means of reaching Tonoe. As an
             added precaution, the entrance to the Valley Maze was blocked
             by a huge boulder. After the party have found Rune and the
             rock is removed, they must make their way through this cave in
             order to reach Tonoe and acquire the Alshline. It is a fairly
             simple dungeon, all on one level, and the enemies inhabiting
             it are not difficult to defeat.
Warehouse    Enemies:  Abe Frog, Blob, Carrion Cr, Toadstool
Basement     Treasure: 100 MST, MONOMATE, 500 MST, 300 MST, ANTIDOTE,
                       TITN-CROWN, ESCAPIPE, ALSHLINE
             Boss:     -

             Location: Beneath the warehouse tent in Tonoe
             Type:     Fortification


             The tent at the back of Tonoe houses the Motavian's warehouse,
             and the party must gain access to it in order to obtain the
             Alshline. They must have Gryz in the party to open the door to
             the basement. It is larger and more difficult than the other
             dungeons before it, and the enemies will provide a challenge
             to the party if they are not at a safe Level. The Warehouse
             Basement spans four floors, and the Alshline that the party
             seek can be found on the lowest level of the dungeon.
Weapons      Enemies:  Arthropod, LifeDeletr, Servant, Silvalt, Star Drone,
Plant                  Wiredine
             Treasure: BURSTROC (Skill), PLSMLAUNCH, ELST-GEAR, ELST-ARMOR,
                       REPAIR-KIT (infinite supply)
             Boss:     -

             Location: West of Jut
             Type:     Hi-tech dungeon


             Shortly before the Great Collapse, Mother Brain had a plant
             built to create weapons for use in emergency situations. The
             Weapons Plant was never used at that time, but has recently
             began producing weapons at the request of Kuran. After the
             party restore normality to the system, the Weapons Plant stops
             again. The party can visit the Weapons Plant if they wish, to
             collect some useful equipment for Wren. It spans four floors,
             and its centre houses a generator that can supply an unlimited
             number of REPAIR-KITs.
Wreckage     Enemies:  Tracer, Warren286, Whistle
             Treasure: CRMCSHIELD, 1500 MST, DIMATE, CRMC-KNIFE, CRMC-MAIL
             Boss:     -

             Location: Northwest of Nalya and northeast of Aiedo
             Type:     Hi-tech dungeon


             Many Parmanians escaped from their home planet before its
             destruction. Some of the ships landed on Motavia, while others
             on Dezolis. There were many that didn't land at all. One of
             the ships was caught in Motavia's orbit, and only after a
             thousand years did it eventually fall to the surface. The
             explosion half destroyed the village of Nalya, and left a
             large crater in the ground. The party may choose to enter the
             Wreckage if they wish. There are some useful items here, and
             the party can learn of the exodus of the Parmanians. Wreckage
             covers three floors, and at its centre is the main terminal.
Zio's Fort   Enemies:  Ripper, Shadowsabr, Speard, Tech User
             Treasure: 2000 MST, MOON-DEW, LASR-SWORD, DIMATE, LASRBARRIR,
                       LASR-CLAW
             Boss:     Juza, Zio

             Location: Southeast of Kadary and north of Mile
             Type:     Fortification


             A little while ago, a strange fortress appeared direcly on top
             of the Motavian control system, Nurvus. The party must go to
             Zio's Fort to find and rescue Demi. The fort spans five floors
             in total, and contains some of the first Darkspawn and Evil
             Beings that the party will meet. The party must fight through
             Zio's right-hand man Juza to reach the top level, and then
             fight Zio himself. It is here that Alys is struck down, and
             the party must escape with Demi before they fall too. The
             invisible barrier on the bottom level protects the entrance to
             Nurvus, and the party must breach this to gain access.
17. Party Conversation                                                CPRCV
```
