<a id="s6-1-3"></a>

### 6.1.3. Mile to the Next Town

**Starting Party:** Alys , Chaz , Hahn · **Starting Level:** 7    , 3-4  , 3-4



Leave the academy and rest at the inn to recover any lost HP and TP from your trip through the basement. Pick up some MONOMATEs from the Tool Shop if you wish, then leave Piata. You are now outside.



**Enemies around Piata and Mile:** Crawler, Mini Worm, MonsterFly



There is nothing to the west, so head east a little, then continue north until you reach a small village to the south of some quicksand. You may also notice that there is a castle on the other side of the quicksand. Enter the village of Mile.



| Mile | Inn | Per person     10 MST \ |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Tool Store | MONOMATE       20 MST / |  |
|  | ANTIDOTE       10 MST \ |  |
| Weapon Store | DAGGER         40 MST | +2 ATK                  / |
|  | HUNT-KNIFE    120 MST | +5 ATK                  \ |
|  | STEL-SWORD    280 MST | +14 ATK   +2 DFS         \ |
|  | BOOMERANG      80 MST | +1 ATK                  / |
|  | SLASHER       160 MST | +4 ATK                  \ |
| Armour Store | LTHR-HELM      80 MST | +1 DFS                  / |
|  | LTHR-CROWN     90 MST | +1 DFS                  \ |
|  | LTHR-BAND      70 MST | +1 DFS                  / |
|  | LTHRSHIELD    140 MST | +2 DFS                  \ |



Before doing anything else, head to the Weapon Store at the north side of the village and buy a STEL-SWORD and two SLASHERs. Don't buy anything from the Armour Store. You've got it already. Equip the STEL-SWORD to Chaz and equip his two HUNT-KNIFEs to Hahn. Also, equip both SLASHERs to Alys. Sell the DAGGER, the BOOMERANG and the LTHRSHIELD. They have no further value.



| Recommended | Alys | Chaz | Hahn |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Head | LTHR-CROWN | LTHR-HELM | LTHR-BAND |  |
| Right | SLASHER | STEL-SWORD | HUNT-KNIFE |  |
| Left | SLASHER | /2-HAND | HUNT-KNIFE |  |
| Body | LTHR-CLOTH | LTHR-CLOTH | LTHR-CLOTH |  |



Stock up on any more MONOMATEs you require and pick up a few ANTIDOTEs, then rest at the Inn if you need to before speaking to the people around the village. They will talk to you about a strange new religion that has started, the wizard Zio, the Sand Worm Ranch (see the man in the southwest corner for more information), and that Birth Valley can be found near Zema, to the northeast. Once you are done here, leave the village. Continue northeast between the mountains, until you see the village of Zema just south of a mountain range. There is a broken bridge to the northwest of Zema, but you can't do anything with this at the moment. Instead, continue wandering around the area near Zema until both Chaz and Hahn are at least Level 5. You will find this helps later. If you get low on HP, return to Mile to refresh yourself. When you are ready, save and enter Zema. Zema has no amenities at the moment. Nearly all of its residents have been turned into stone. The only two inhabitants who were not are hiding in the basement of the southwest house. It seems that Zio has been at work here. Make your way to the north end of town, and enter the cave.
