<a id="s6-4-3"></a>

### 6.4.3. Theft in the Temple

Starting Party: Wren , Chaz , Rika , Kyra , Rune Starting Level: 27-28, 29-30, 30-32, 28-29, 28-29 Get out your Ice Digger and drive east through the ice wall, heading to the north along the way. Continue east until you can see Jut again. This time, however, go a little northeast of Jut and you will find a large building. This is Gumbious Temple, your next port of call. Go inside. There are three corridors here, and first you want to head right. Take the staircase to the basement, then go a little left and up to the junction. Two Dezolisian guards are blocking the right passage, so go left and up at the corner to a small room. Pick up the TRIMATE, MOON-DEW, STAR-DEW and SOL-DEW, then go back down and return to the staircase. Take it. Walk back left along the passage, continuing past the entrance to the next staircase. Ascend to the floor above, then head right to the end of the corridor. Go up and speak to the priest-like Dezolisian standing on the steps, below the Eclipse Torch. Chaz obviously asks him for the Torch, as he blatantly refuses, saying that the holy flame cannot go beyond the gate. He continues that he will not allow it, even if it is the wish of the mighty Lutz. Chaz then gets a little annoyed, pointing out that the entire future of Algo depends on it, but the priest won't hear of it. At that moment, three purple-robed witches (not dissimilar to the one you met in the Climate Control Centre) appear around the Eclipse Torch. The middle one laughs, and tells them that he intends to take the Torch. Chaz asks what the witch thinks he's doing, then the left witch laughs and tells him that they are from the Air Castle. The one in the middle then addresses Rune personally, saying that if he is Lutz he will remember. The left one then adds that Rune will know how will be waiting for him at the Air Castle. They then take the Eclipse Torch. The left one then tells them the group that if they want the Torch back they will have to come and get it, if they don't mind losing their life. The middle one then laughs one more time (a common trait with these witches), and then they all vanish. The Dezolisian is stricken, blaming himself for his narrow-mindedness. Chaz and Rune try to cheer him up, and Chaz says that all they have to do is go and retrieve it. The priest is very grateful, but Chaz adds that if they do recover it then they must be allowed to borrow it. The Dezolisian priest happily agrees, then Rika asks Rune about the Air Castle. He says that Lutz does remember it, and that it was a castle that used to float in the sky above Parma. Rika notes, however, that it would have been destroyed along with the rest of Parma a thousand years ago, and Wren adds that an asteroid belt is all that is left of where Parma used to be. Rune suggests that perhaps, somehow, the Air Castle managed to survive. Wren is sceptical, but says that he will check the sensors on the Landale. Chaz then asks Rune who the person was that the witches were talking about, and Rune explains that the first Lutz and his companions fought a man in the Air Castle, and that his name was Lashiec. Chaz asks if that is the person they meant, but Rune replies that Lashiec was defeated by Lutz, and doesn't know what they will find until they get there.
