<a id="s6-5-11"></a>

### 6.5.11. The Cycle is Broken

The Profound Darkness is no more, but the party now have a new problem to deal with. Rune points out that the force holding the dimensional door open is gone, and Wren reports sensing a time warp. Rika asks what they are supposed to do, when Elsydeon begins to shine. Rune realises that it is protecting them, and Chaz thanks the spirits within. A short while later, everyone is back on the surface of Motavia, watching the sun rise. Rune announces that it is over, and Chaz agrees. Rika adds that they were able to keep Algo safe. Wren reports that the departure preparations are complete for the Landale, and Raja and Kyra decide to go back to Dezolis. Raja says it was quite a journey, the likes of which he hasn't had in a long time. Kyra suggests that the others should visit Dezolis once in a while, but Raja points out they don't have a spaceship, and that flapping their arms won't get them too far. Kyra and Raja say goodbye. Demi reports that she will go back to Zelan to assist Wren, and bids Chaz farewell too. She says that eventually the time will come when both she and Wren will become unnecessary to Algo, but until that time she will work to complete her duties. Wren adds that, after he has taken the others to Dezolis, he will go back to Zelan. He guesses that they will still need the support of the system a little while longer. Chaz suddenly notices that Rika is missing, and Wren tells him that she is already waiting by the Landale, adding that parting must be difficult for her. Chaz doesn't seem too happy. Wren finally says goodbye to Chaz, and assures him that they will meet again. He, Demi, Raja and Kyra head to the Landale, and Wren tells Rika that they are leaving. They all get on board, and fly off into the distance. Gryz says that they are gone. On board, Rika tries to speak to Wren, but Wren knows what she is thinking. He tells her that the road she chooses will probably be painful and difficult, but says that she is their hope. Wren tells Rika that she must be strong and live with pride. Rika understands, and thanks him. Back on the surface, Gryz tells the others that he's got to go back to Tonoe. He thanks Chaz, adding that he has learnt a lot from the trip. Hahn decides to return to the academy. He says that he has become disgusted with the sort of people there, but that he must learn to transform his feelings into inner strength. He says goodbye to Chaz, and tells him that he will always be proud to have fought beside him. Gryz and Hahn leave, and Rune turns to Chaz and tells him that he guesses it is finally goodbye. He continues that, although the battle against the ultimate fiend is over, his mission as Lutz must continue. Rune explains that he must watch over all Algo, and that he is still lacking in training and experience. He adds that he must continue to improve himself, and eventually pass it on to the next Lutz. Chaz asks if they will ever meet again, but Rune replies that it is unlikely. Chaz begins to cry, bur Rune tells him that Chaz can live now without anyone else's help. At that moment, the Landale appears above them, and Rika is standing at the doorway. Chaz and Rika call to each other, then Rika takes one last look at Wren. With tears in her eyes, she leaps from the Landale and into the arms of Chaz. Rune bids farewell to them both, and walks into the distance. Under his breath, Chaz says his last goodbye to Rune, and thanks him. The Landale soars off into space. 'The long battle is over. We were able to free ourselves from the terrible curse of yore. To the souls of those who sacrificed their lives for Algo sleep in peace. From person to person... From age to age... As long as memories last... We will not forget the sacrifices that have been made.' Hahn goes back to teach at the academy, and Gryz and Pana live peacefully back in Tonoe. Raja continues living leisurely, spending a lot of his time at Gyuna's bar, and Kyra maintains her studies and prayer at the Esper Mansion. Demi and Wren work together aboard Zelan, keeping Algo under control, and Rune watches from afar as he wanders in the wilderness. Chaz and Rika make a life together, and each finally find true happiness. The epic story concludes. 'The eons-old struggle between Light and Dark has ended, and now the curtain rises on a new age...' The credits roll. Fin.
