<a id="s8-1-9"></a>

### 8.1.9. Raja

**Joins Party:** In Raja Temple · **Starting Level:** 25

**Initial Stats:** HP 108, TP 170, Str 31, Men 51, Agl 24, Dex 30

**Initial Equipment:** Head: SILVCIRCLT, Right: SILV-ROD, Body: SILV-MANTL

**Initial Techniques:** RES,ANTI,RIMPA,

**Initial Skills:** BLESSING (16)

**Raja Temple** — Dezolisian (Priest) · Age: 85 · Sex: Male · Lives: Temple

Raja is the party's first contact on Dezolis, and decides to accompany the party as compensation for the destruction of his temple. His sudden illness causes him to leave rather abruptly, but after his recovery he returns to aid the party at the end.

Raja's main strength lies in his tremendous healing powers that are derived from his faith. These curative abilities make Raja a very useful supportive character for the group, although he has few other uses beyond this. From the moment he joins the party, Raja tries to explain to the rest of them that the cause of the snowstorm on Dezolis is the Garuberk Tower, although the party are more inclined to listed to Wren's theories at the beginning. He remains adamant about this fact until he falls ill in Meese, after which the party realise that he may be telling the truth.

He is an easy-going, jovial old man, who enjoys the company of others and being the centre of attention. Before joining the party, he frequented Gyuna's bar in Ryuon a lot, and his knowledge of the area helps the party to acquire the Landale.

Raja is most notable for his attempts to crack jokes in all situations, although these are mostly ignored by the rest of the party. His only real audience is Rika, who thinks that he is funny, but sometimes she doesn't even acknowledge his stabs at humour.

Raja's favoured weapons are rods, and he wears mainly bands and robes.

Raja has a full selection of curative Techniques, and also possesses a couple of hindrance Techs.

His Skills include restoration, protection, a powerful divine spell and causing instant death.
