<a id="s8-2"></a>

## 8.2. Non-playable Characters

**Academy Principal - Met in Motavia Academy in Piata. Doctor Lubetz - Referred to by a statue in Motavia Academy. Professor Holt - Referred to by Hahn. Zio - Referred to by Academy Principal. Hahn's Father - Met in the Armour Store in Krup. Hahn's Mother - Met in the Armour Store in Krup. Saya - Met in the school in Krup. Grandfather Dorin - Met in the northeast tent in Tonoe. Pana - Met in the northeast tent in Tonoe. Seed - Met in Bio-Plant. Guild Receptionist - Met in the Hunters' Guild in Aiedo. Juza - Met in Zio's Fort. Tinkerbell - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Tinkerbell's Father - Met in the eastern house in Aiedo. Tinkerbell's Mother - Met in the eastern house in Aiedo. Rocky - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Earthquake Man - Met in Monsen. Alis Landale - Referred to by a statue in Termi. Gy-Laguiah - Met in Ladea Tower and Climate Control Centre. Dark Force - Referred to by Zio. Dorm Caretaker - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Student Cult Devotee - Referred to by Dorm Caretaker. Caring Old Man - Met in the Inn in Kadary. Eddie - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Tallas - Referred to by Eddie. Chaos Sorcerer - Met on the shuttle after Zelan. Gyuna - Met in the bar in Ryuon. Tyler - Referred to by the grave in Tyler. Musk Cat Chief - Met in Mysterious Valley. D-Elm-Lars - Met in Climate Control Centre. Off-Duty Esper - Met in the clinic in Meese. Lutz - Referred to by Kyra. Dezolisian Priest - Met in Gumbious Temple. Xe-A-Thouls - Met in Gumbious Temple and Air Castle. Lashiec - Referred to by Rune. Dezolisian Bishop - Met under Gumbious Temple. Chief of Uzo - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Chief's Daughters - Referred to by Chief of Uzo. Mr. Culvers - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Mr. Culvers' Son - Met in northwest house in Torinco. Mr. Sekreas - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Old Man in Zema - Referred to by Guild Receptionist. Daughter - Met in Vahal Fort. Le Roof - Met in Silence Temple. De-Vars - Met in Strength Tower. Sa-Lews - Met in Courage Tower. The Great Light - Referred to by Le Roof. Elsydeon - Referred to by Rune. Alys Illusion - Met in Anger Tower. Re-Faze - Met in Anger Tower. 9. Character Statistics CCRST**
