<a id="s2-10"></a>

## 2.10. Tips and Tricks

• When you first get to Termina, components for upgrading are scarce. There is one quick way to get what you need for instant killing tools: destroy that Profiteer Purse! By disassembling the item (which can be found in Van's House, underneath the stairway), one can obtain three @Copper and @Iron components before they're readily available.

• When in Viper Manor, there are enemies that are disguised as treasure boxes and will give Serge items/$$ if he attacks the correct one in battle. If he gets it wrong a fight begins...or does it? If you happen to attack a chest that doesn't contain a treasure, simply flee battle and try again. Simple as!

• When fighting a battle, if one steals something and flees, that item gets dropped behind. This prevents stacking up on rare items too quickly. What one may not know is that any trapped elements are retained even in defeat! Some battles, like against Bunyip, can produce many hard-to-find elements like Inferno/Volcano. And, after awhile, one can simply use those elements against their former master! Don't forget this!

• Speaking of stealing, players can rob foes easier after attacking a few times and finishing with the theft technique.

• People may forget how useful Diminish is. When fighting enemies that have innate colors directly opposed to your strongest fighters, use this skill and simply pound away. As long as one isn't offensive-element-dependent, this is a great strategy for battle use. And remember: it only halves the damage done, not the potency of healing elements. It's really quite grand if y'think about it. :p
