<a id="s2-11"></a>

## 2.11. Walkthrough Notation

If you get confused on boss strategies and what stuff means, here's the news on the subject. I'll go by example, but it may be hard to understand just by reading explanations. Go look at the actual strategies to get a good idea on how they work!

```
------------------------------------------------------------
 • ->    Indicates the pattern flow from segments to segments
 ------------------------------------------------------------
```

EX: PoisonGas -> Attack ×??

The PoisonGas attack will always precede the Attack, which is repeated an indefinite amount of time (infinitely, most likely). An arrow shows the directivity of the skills/techniques.

```
-----------------------------------------------------------
 • ×??   One attack or segment is repeated indefinitely -or-
         the attack has a trigger that is currently unknown.
 -----------------------------------------------------------
```

**EX:** Attack ×?? · **EX:** PoisonGas -> Attack ×?? -> AcidicGas · **EX:** PoisonGas to AcidicGas (×??) -> AeroBlaster

The first example has an enemy that only uses physical attacks; the second has a segment where the enemy attacks physically an unknown # of times. It may have a specific trigger or is randomized before moving to the following step.

If the '×??' is parenthesized, it only indicates a segment is repeated, not a single move. In the third example, PoisonGas and AcidicGas are used over and over in the order displayed until eventually going into AeroBlaster. It sounds complicated, but it's really not.

Sometimes things like '×1-2' appear, meaning the enemy may attack once or

twice. Don't be surprised to see things like '×4-5' or something, too. This

does NOT mean the enemy attacks four times per turn, or four times in a row

**mind you it just means an enemy uses its turn to attack physically in a**

# of times that's not completely definite. <cough>

```
-----------------------------------------------------------
 • ()    The attack may be dropped entirely from the pattern
         -or- it may show up only once in the entire pattern
 -----------------------------------------------------------
```

EX: AcidicGas -> (PoisonGas) -> AeroBlaster

In this example, PoisonGas may or may not be used during a turn. If that is the case during the battle, AcidicGas will skip it completely and launch into AeroBlaster instead. It's worth noting since in some cases losing a step can spell disaster for planning (such as the Wingapede being able to use Tornado a turn early).

```
-----------------------------------------------------------
 • to    Indicates a repeated portion of attacks
 -----------------------------------------------------------
```

EX: Attack to AeroBlaster to Tornado (×??)

'To' really functions the same as '->' in a way; this way is just easier

because it allows the '×??' part to indicate a string of attacks is done

in a planned order. Here, there will always be an Attack leading into an

**AeroBlaster leading into a Tornado the entire string is repeated some**

unknown # of times. The only time 'to' appears is when strings of attacks

are involved.

```
-----------------------------------------------------------
 • +     Indicates attacks/skills used consecutively
 -----------------------------------------------------------
```

EX: Attack -> IceBlast + IceBlast -> Attack

Here, IceBlast is used twice in a row. This means that the player does not have a chance to do anything in between; the enemy uses the attack without giving the allies any chance to prepare.

```
-----------------------------------------------------------
 [1]     Indicates a different strategy altogether
 -----------------------------------------------------------
```

**EX:** Attack -> AeroBlaster -> Attack ×?? · **EX:** [2] Attack ×?? -> Tornado -> Attack ×??

In this case, after 'something' happens to the first attack pattern, the enemy operates on the '[2]' pattern for some duration. The number inside the brackets indicates the different strategies, basically. Sometimes the strategy will change back (such as healing out of critical condition) but sometimes it doesn't.

---

One more thing. I wrote the strategies using a new level and then went back over it with a 99-star level to adjust the strategies and make 'em sync up. Some enemies may act differently to stronger allies, I don't know. For one example, during the Solt/Peppor/Ketchop fight, at low levels I never once saw an ElectroBolt used but one was in the strategy when the Lv. 99 guys came through. If a strategy seems off, this may be why. Sorry. :3
