<a id="s2-2"></a>

## 2.2. Element Types

Most elements have different characteristics inherently, but they can all be grouped into certain piles or categories. They are:

**• TECHS > These are special abilities inherent to the character,**

and can be learned or found/recovered through various

methods. All characters have one tech that goes into

the LV3, LV5, and LV7 slots (except Sprigg who's only

a LV5). Techs cannot be removed from a character, and

once they're allocated to the grid (if they're found)

the same thing applies. Certain characters can link

their techs together and form a '2x Tech' or 'double

tech' to do a special maneuver on the enemy.

**• TRAPS > Traps can only be set in one certain level of the grid**

and are non-offensive. However, they do have a special

purpose: stealing the enemy's elements! If you use a

trap and the enemy casts the element you're gunning to

steal, your set trap will disappear and one (x1) type

of the element you stole will be in the inventory. For

an example, if you set an Earthquake trap, nothing'll

happen until an enemy casts Earthquake. At that time,

the attack will be nullified (no damage/effect taken),

the trap you set will disappear, and one 'Earthquake'

element appears in the inventory. Apply this to all

trappable elements.

**• OFFENSIVE > This designation encapsulates any element used for**

weakening the enemy position. Dealing damage, casting

status effects, using debuffers (lowers enemy stats),

or modifying the field to your advantage.

**• DEFENSIVE > This designation sums up those elements used for the**

purpose of helping your comrades out. This can be any

element/consumable that heals, alleviates statuses,

buffs your party (raises their stats temporarily), or

modifies the field effect, such as Diminish/Magnify.

• FIELD EFFECT -> These specifically deal with the field effect marker in the upper-left corner. Mostly, these are elements such as 'RedField' that change the effect to a single color. Some techs like Van's 'WetPaint' can mimic this effect, also.

• MODIFY FIELD -> These modify the playing field itself, rather than the field effect marker. This is mostly the job for a Diminish (halves elemental damage), Magnify (ups the elemental damage done by 150%) or SealAll (stops any elements from being used).
