<a id="s2-3"></a>

## 2.3. Element Grid

The element grid is the 'thing' one equips the different elements to for battle use. To find it, enter the main menu, go to 'Elements' and then to 'Allocate.' Allocate means 'to place,' which is what you do with the elements in your inventory (duh?).

Characters you receive early on will have small element grids, meaning they can't perform a bunch of hard-hitting maneuvers right off the bat. At max, there are eight 'level's with multiple slots on each; but, for now, an example of a small element grid would be:

LV1 LV2 LV3 LV4 LV5 LV6 LV7 LV8

```
[   ][   ]
                  [   ][   ][   ][   ]
                  [   ]
```

At this time, only seven elements can be equipped with elements that can be placed up to a LV 4 slot. When you inspect an element before it's equipped, it will display something like "1 ± 7". What does this mean?

The above example meanins that it can be placed in any slot from LV1 to LV 1+7 (LV8). If you equip this element (say, a GravityBlow) in its default placement level (LV1) it will read 'GravityBlow'. If you were to put it at its highest, it would read 'GravityBlow +7'. This '+7' means that the attack is placed higher than normal and will then do better damage. But this example only shows a horrible element placed at a high rate...what about elements that start good and have their effects dulled by poor placement? Let's use 'BlackHole,' a 6 ± 2 element as an example.

We already know that this has a default position of LV6 and can be put as high as "LV8". But what if it's stuck at its lowest, LV4? When any element is placed below its default, it will get a negative marking. For the above example, at its lowest, it will read "BlackHole -2". This goes to display that it's placed two lower than where it should be, and it'll have a flattened/worse effect because of it.

---

For the last short example, there are some elements that simply cannot be moved. An example would be an Earthquake Trap element (LV 6 ± 0). It HAS to be in the LV6 slot to be used. Some other elements you'll come across that have this same property are special 'techs'. These are found or learned and once they're on a character, they cannot be removed or changed at all.

**TUTORIAL FINISH!**

At this point, I'll add that some elements have a set effect that is NOT tarnished by their placement. For instance, Purify (LV 4 ± 4 element) is used to remove status effects. It really doesn't matter if you place it at LV8 or LV1, because it only does that one task. This goes for a few other elements (like Diminish, Magnify, Revenge, field modify elements). You'll probably notice that those will fall into the 'miscellaneous' category, yeah? Try out the effects yourself and see what gives better results.
