<a id="s2-4"></a>

## 2.4. Field Effect

One can technically play the game without worrying about this portion, but any smart player will learn to use this to their advantage. Find this thing in the upper-left corner of a battle, looking like:

<!-- MIXED -->

**This ASCII drawing to the left is pretty**

**\ crappy, but it's meant to illustrate that**

**there are three colors represented there**

| '- |  | /INSIDE |
| --- | --- | --- |

**colors used are displayed, the oldest is**

kicked off. Comprende? Yeah? :p

**\ For example, let's say that the battle is**

**BLACK started. There will _ALWAYS_ be three**

|  | /GREEN | certain way. Let's say they're red, black |
| --- | --- | --- |

**characters/elements of the same color by**

temporarily raising their stats, while

**simultaneously POWERING DOWN any ally or**

**B \ enemy of the opposite color. For here,**

**L /GREEN Blue, White, and Yellow persons would be**

| C | /  RED |  |
| --- | --- | --- |

**diagram. The oldest color Red was**

removed from the outside as the colors

**shifted, but the newest color Red**

replaced it so it stuck to the grid. The

**flow is easy to get down once you see it**

**\ in action.**

**B /BLUE**

| U | / BLUE | element. This is a field modifier that |
| --- | --- | --- |

**while heavily powering-down ONLY red**

characters. This will be a noticeable

change in physical damage, their stats

will have weakened considerably, and

they won't pose a threat as much. This

type of upper-hand situation is what one

should try to capitalize on. Summons can

only be used when the field effect is a

pure color. Salamander can only be used

if the field all red, and so on.

**\ Someone then uses a 'red' element to**

**B /BLUE try and even the situation, leading up**

| U | /  RED | two opposing elements in it -- how will |
| --- | --- | --- |

**cancel out one 'blue', making this field**

effect slightly in favor of blue.

That's all for field effects; hope the visuals helped a bit. Blue & red were used a lot, but they can stand for any opposed element types, to be clear. If you don't understand, just jump into battle and experience it for yourself. Text diagrams are no substitution for observations you can make on your own.
