<a id="s2-5"></a>

## 2.5. Attacking

"Didn't we just go over this!?" you may be asking, but using elements is only the half of a skirmish. Physical attacks rely on the user's STR and ATK stats, as well as their weapon attack. When you select 'Attack' and pick a target, a little box with percentages comes up like so:

| 1 - (93%) | attack. Weak attacks will probably succeed but will raise |
| --- | --- |
| 2 - (80%) | the other attacks' percentages only a small amount; on the |
| 3 - (70%) | flipside, a "3" attack has a better probability of missing |
| Element | but will instantly raise all types' attack percentages to |

This is where a character's Stamina comes into play, as well as their element grid. A weak (1) attack will take only one point from the initial stamina of 7.0, while a fierce attack (3) will take 3 from the stamina. Attacks that land will raise a character's element grid level by the type of slice it was.

.-----------. For example, let's say Lynx landed a fierce attack. His | 1 - (99%) | attack percentages are all raised to a very high success | 2 - (98%) | rate. He will have 4.0 of 7.0 stamina and, since his stab | 3 - (95%) | at the enemy was successful, he can any elements in his '-----------' grid at LV3 or below. If he lands another fierce attack, his percentages will raise even higher and his stamina will be at 1.0 of 7.0.

The 'Element' option comes into play here. The above example used two fierce (3) attacks twice which hit. That means Lynx can use elements up to the LV6 allocation (why? 3 + 3). If he picks an element to use, it'll drop his Stamina by 7.0 points and drop him into the negative range. The display will be 'Out. -6.0' because 1.0 - 7.0 = -6.0. Simple math, yeah?

After this, Lynx will not be able to select actions again until his Stamina is above 1.0. His stamina gradually comes back depending on how high his 'STAMINA RECOVERY' is. Go under 'Status' on the main menu and check. My Lynx has an amount of '12'. How does this translate? Well, he will recover '1.0' each time he defends, '1.2' if someone else in his team defends, and a lot more if he defends right before an enemy uses an attack (sorry, don't know how much that is).

Choosing to 'DEFEND' _always_ recovers 1.0 to the Stamina, while anyone

else defending will recover the amount in the 'STAMINA RECOVERY' amount.

**Hard to follow? Don't like math? Don't worry knowing the game's stamina**

system in-depth is not required. It's just good to know if you want to have

some extra knowledge. Just note that 'Defend' can reduce damage by over 50%,

so it's useful to defend when you can.
