<a id="s2-9"></a>

## 2.9. New Game Plus and Continue Plus

After beating a game and saving at the prompt, one can do either a New Game Plus (a.k.a. NG+) or a Continue Plus game. They're two different things, so I'll break 'em down.

```
----------
 NEW GAME +
 ----------
```

This allows the player to start the entire game over with the added bonus of having the previous save (the one you load before this getting this option) transfer some things, being:

• Gold • Star (summon) levels • All character stats • All window frames • All elements (besides ChronoCross and summons). • All raw materials, including Rainbow Shells/Shiny items • All special techs learned AUTOMATICALLY (ones you have to earn/find are not carried over, i.e. MaidenFaith, Unleashed, etc.) • All equipment (besides Mastermune, Einlanzer, Hero's Medal, Blue Brooch, Hero's Shield, Hero's Sword, Master Hammer...) • All enemies 'learned' for Sprigg's Doppelgang ability

Things like key items do not carry over. In addition to the above things, Serge also starts with a 'Time Egg' and 'Time Shifter.' The former allows him to do battle with the very end boss at any time he wishes, while the latter can fast-forward or make time go in slo-mo for field animations and dialogue (but not for FMVs). Also worth noting is some elements that were equipped when the game ended do not carry over into New Game Pluses.

OTHER THINGS THAT DIFFER ON NG+:

• On Pierre's path, Acacia SGT boss fight comes without Acacia PVTs 1st • If you skip the Ice Breath quest, the Dragoon still does not show up at Fort Dragonia's entrance when it normally would. • At Fort Dragonia, in the 'Blue Room,' the Sea Chest/Dragoon locations have been switched.

```
-------------
 CONTINUE PLUS
 -------------
```

This allows the player to carry over some things into another save file. It cannot be a finished game (one saved at the end prompt), but any other regular save. Items that normally aren't transferable on a NG+ also apply here.
