<a id="s3-1"></a>

## 3.1. Dream Sequence

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| There ain't any! | • Cybot |  |
| ___________________________________________ | • Alphabat |  |

As you start the game, name the lead character (anything except Crono :p) to head into a large draconic-lookin' palace nestled between some high cliffs. The character you named [default: Serge] will be accompanied by a girl named Kid and one randomized character. I always found it easier to change the controller scheme a bit so that holding the O-button is walking instead of running (go to 'Customize' under main menu). Turn on analog mode if you want, also.

---

At the fork, head SW on the screen to find a glowing blue exit. A robot foe

(Cybot) and a bat () walk the floor here, and touching one means engaging a

battle. Since experience doesn't matter in this portion, and no items'll be

dropped, you can avoid battles by outmaneuvering the enemy (usually). Fight

**here to get initiated, if you aren't already everyone starts out buffed**

more than they usually are, element-wise.

The area is straightforward, so I'll spare the small details. Exiting that first room with enemies eventually wraps back around to itself on a higher ledge. Ignore the stairway by the entrance and use the catwalk to advance to a NW door that has a red symbol on it. Enter inside and shut down the black pillar.

In the previous room, a teleport pad with six circles on it resonates with energy. Make your way onto it, confirm with the x-button, and ride all the way up. See what's happenin' with the door nearby to exit this 'level' and be lulled back into reality...
