<a id="s3-13"></a>

## 3.13. Guldove

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | CHARACTERS TO INVITE |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Astral Amulet       • Pelvic Bone | There ain't any! |  |
| • Feathery Dress      • Green Tinkler | _______________________________ |  |
| • Tropical Paradise Frame |  |  |

**<-4 (Behind Macha's House)**

(      ) <-5 ('Leave Kid' Path Only)

**ELEMENT SHOP [SH04]**

```
_____        |     \  / /
       SHAMAN -> | SAVE|       |_   _/_/ /
                 |_   _|_________| |_/ _/
 [LEGEND]          | |_/  ____   _____/
                   |_____/    | |_____         ________
                              | |BAR 3|       |CLINIC 1|
  1 - Astral Amulet           | |_   _|       |_   ____|
  2 - Pelvic Bone             | |_| |_ _________| |____
  3 - Green Tinkler           |      _|___        2    |
  4 - Feathery Dress          |_____|     |____________| DOCK/EXIT
```

5 - Tropical Paradise Frame / SHOP [SH04]

When Serge awakens, check outside to find the allies talking with Korcha. Kid ends up falling ill, though... After checking into the town clinic, she gives our protagonist her [ASTRAL AMULET] to hold on to. Now, this is where the path splits. Serge can choose to look for a way to save Kid, or give in to the situation's futility. The choice changes some of the characters that can be recruited. When Korcha asks what Serge is going to do, "...I don't know" and "...There's nothing we can do" go towards leaving her and "Find a way to save her" goes toward the hunt for Hydra Humour. I'll break down the characters specific to the paths:

OPTION #1: Korcha, Mel, Razzly ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Korcha isn't terribly awesome, but Mel has a double-tech with Kid if she's recruited. Razzly is very decent, though...her last tech RazFlower is just pretty difficult to get. Two outta three ain't bad. People with a conscience will choose this path. >=p

Saving Kid is probably the easier route, as one obtains the Astral Amulet earlier and can steal Moonglasses from an upcoming optional boss (rather than her dropping them).

OPTION #2: Doc, Macha, Glenn ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Most people choose this path because of the last character, Glenn. Not only is he one of the most powerful people in the game, but he has a double-tech with Serge called X-Strike (like in Chrono Trigger). The other two probably won't be used, but man, Glenn's a catch if you pick this path. Definitely worthwhile to go this path, more so than the other if you don't have any pangs of guilt for not saving Kid. Also, since you're not required to go to Hydra Marshes yet, y'can wait until the 16th star and get trap Tornadoes from the Wingapede boss (thanks to Guillaume Audet for this tip.) YOU CAN STILL RECRUIT KID LATER IF YOU CHOOSE THIS PATH.

Choosing this path means that Kid won't join the party until very late in

**the game. She's not missable per se unless one purposely doesn't try to**

**invite her or do any sidequests pertaining to it) but it's an awful long**

time to wait nonetheless.

Before going on with the path-splitting, I'll give the items that're able to be found on either path:

• [PELVIC BONE] - Obtain from the element trader standing by the town dock by choosing 'Trade'. When you quit talking to her, she'll want you to dispose of the weird bone she has. Accept to get the dang thing.

• [GREEN TINKLER] - After talking with the shaman, go inside the bar and talk with the drunken dwarf twice. He'll hand it over. Apparently, this thing'll control some plants at the Hydra Marshes in order to get further into the swamp...

• [FEATHERY DRESS] - Check behind Macha's house to find a 'secret' entrance that leads to a storage room. This is done by going around the blindspot on the midlevel walkway (tower is three stories tall). Stealing Mel's stuff ain't nice...

The walkthrough for this section splits slightly on proceeding with the story so read the column according to your choice.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| PATH A (RIDIN' TO KID'S RESCUE) | PATH B (NOT SAVING KID) |
| --- | --- |
| After choosing to help Kid recover, a | Korcha takes the Astral Amulet back |
| doctor suggests consulting the village | to the nightstand if Serge decides |
| shaman to give suggestions on what the | on doing nothing. Select the party |
| party should do. The shaman's tower is | ranks and talk to Korcha in the west |
| past the bar and up the ladder, to the | residential tower; ask for his boat |
| left. Talk with Shaman Direa & Steena, | to see some...fun dialogue with him |
| and learn of a possibility to find the | and his ma. Macha'll borrow Korcha's |
| hydra humour in the world Serge's from | boat to ferry everyone back to the |
| originally. A dimensional distortion's | main island. She recommends talking |
| needed to send him back, though...ring | with the village shaman, too, before |
| a bell, 'Angelus Errare'? Search town | giving a [TROPICAL PARADISE FRAME] |
| for items listed above and Korcha will | to the party. After talking with the |
| escort everyone outta town at the dock | shaman, head for the docks and hitch |
| area. | a ride outta this ramshackle town... |

Whichever path is taken, the next stop is Termina. Whee-hoo!
