<a id="s3-15"></a>

## 3.15. PATH A: Hydra Marshes

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • @Feather            • @Bone | • Swarmp Bug |  |
| • Brace               • Beeba Flute | • Potpourri |  |
| • Bushbasher          • Cure | • Beeba |  |
| • RecoverAll          • AeroSaucer | • DaggyDwarf |  |
| • Ointment            • Medicine | • Quadffid |  |
| • Hydra Humour | • DaffyDwarf |  |

Talk to the guy at the entrance to be permitted through. He drops a hint that there are poisonous monsters around, so equipping Antitoxinal Caps (dropped by Gobledygook enemies at Viper Bluffs) or having lots of Antidotes is a good idea. This is also handy for a boss who specializes in poisoning your allies.

<!-- MIXED -->

___ BLOW FLUTE HERE ->/ \ <- AFTER WINGAPEDE'S DEAD, CAN FALL INTO _ ( ) RAZZLY'S HOLDING AREA

```
|5|  \   /           [SAVE]  ______
               _|_|___) /    _________/ ____/ HYDRA| <-12        [LEGEND]
              |_____   /    |      __ \/  11|/¯¯¯¯¯
    SAVE        |^|_| (     |  ___|  \  (¯¯¯      _____    1 - @Feather
        \_______|  ___|___  | |___    \ 9¯¯\___  |     |   2 - @Bone
        |   ______||RAZZLY\ \___8 |    \_____  | |     |   3 - Brace
        |  |       | 7    /\____| |__        | |_|     |   4 - Beeba Flute
 BOSS ->|4 |        ¯¯¯¯¯¯\__6      _/ <---> |  _______|   5 - Bushbasher
        |  |______________   \_   _/         | |________   6 - Cure
        |              3  |  __| |__________/         10|  7 - RecoverAll
         ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| |_|      2         /¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯   8 - AeroSaucer
                        |___  |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯\             9 - Antidote
                            | |____________   ONE-WAY     10 - Ointment
                            |___   ______  |   SLOPE!     11 - Medicine
                                | | _____| |              12 - Hydra Humour
                          START-|_||1      |
```

¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ Get the [@FEATHER] off to the right dead-end area and arc clockwise towards the two exits. A strange apparition of a fairy will continue west before vanishing. Get the [@BONE] before deciding your path. If you got the Green Tinkler item from the dwarf in Another World Guldove, you can proceed north and bypass some shenanigans to the west. You won't be able to get a new ally though...your decision. The walkthrough'll go the spectre's way first. After sighting a large bug and getting a [BRACE] nearby, head further in to find a pesky monster that doesn't want you in its territory too badly.

```
| BOSS: Beeba  | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 280 | @Fur, Upheaval                  |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: ---                                                             |
 | TO STEAL: Tablet, @Copper                                                 |
 | SPECIALS: ---                                                             |
 | PATTERNS: Attack ×??                                                      |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

This may seem like a goofy battle, but it can quickly become an annoyance as 'Beeba A' will continuously call allies into battle (on its turn) until four more Beebas are with (max). The enemies use no elements and simply attack a few times a turn on occasion, so dominating the field effect is a cakewalk. If Serge has a Steel Swallow, the battle is expedited a bit. For those who have trouble, try packing one character (Leena/Greco) with healing items of their element and simply using them as the 'white mage' of the group. Serge can use RecoverAll if he needs to, also. Don't forget how useful defending can be! 640G awarded for killing five Beebas, but no star is awarded for this demi-boss fight.

<!-- MIXED -->

The trounced Beeba forks over a [BEEBA FLUTE] chest behind, saying it should be used in a wide-open space to call a Wingapede. Sounds kinda fishy, but meh... Save the game and continue along the road. You can fight another Beeba for a [BUSHBASHER]...just know it's the same as the last fight, pretty much. In the dead-end screen past there, blow the flute to summon a 'boss' of some sort...

```
| BOSS: Wingapede | INNATE: Green | HP: 430 | AeroSaucer, @Leather          |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: AeroSaucer, AeroBlaster, Tornado                                |
 | TO STEAL: ---                                                             |
 | SPECIALS: AcidicGas (Green-innate attack on allies + Poison status)       |
 |           PoisonGas (Green-innate; tries to inflict 'Poison' on allies)   |
 | PATTERNS: AcidicGas -> Attack -> AeroSaucer -> AcidicGas to Attack to     |
 |           Aeroblaster (×??)                                               |
 |       [2] PoisonGas to Attack ×2 to PoisonGas to Attack to Tornado (×??)  |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

If you equipped Antitoxinal Caps on everyone as a precautionary measure, it makes this battle twenty times less trying...PoisonGas will also miss every time its cast. This battle isn't so hard for the most part but Wingapede's fast, no doubt about it. Unleash the most powerful attacks you have at the moment (IceBlast, FirePillar, etc.) and try to defeat it in doubletime. The reason for the fast killing is that it can use Tornado when in in critical condition, on its sixth turn. It will be slumping in midair so one knows it's near death. Take it out fast to prevent any unnecessary mishaps, since Tornado can do 100+ with minimal field effect boosting. Hopefully you have the RecoverAll from the Viper Manor dragon-feeding game, 'cause it's made for this battle. AeroBlaster's the only other nuisance, doing 70+ to any yellow-innate character. 164G awarded for the victory, but no level-up star to show for it... (PS - Make sure you're prepared to fight because running away to train isn't possible...you can only access the menu and heal!!!).

<!-- MIXED -->

After defeating the Wingapede, it cracks the ground below it. Save and step on it, even after a party member warns you about its feeble state. Everyone plummets below, landing on a gigantic monster... Get the [RECOVERALL] behind the caged fairy before you do anything unwise. You can leave without fighting the boss, but if you talk to the fairy, you'll have to do battle before she's saved. C'est la vie!

```
| BOSS: Pentapus  | INNATE: Blue  | HP: 600 | AquaBall, IceBlast            |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: ---                                                             |
 | TO STEAL: ---                                                             |
 | SPECIALS: Whop (Blue-innate attack on one ally)                           |
 |           Hexahitter (Blue-innate attack on one ally)                     |
 | PATTERNS: Attack to Whop -> Attack ×4 to Whop (×??)                       |
 |           Hexahitter (offensive red element counter; used automatically)  |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

<!-- MIXED -->

Like the Wingapede battle, once you start the fight, there's no goin' back

as far as preparations are concerned. Its 'Whop' attack is pretty powerful

and can do 70+ damage, but it gets into a flow where it only uses it every

5th turn. This gives plenty of time to turn the field effect a different

**color than blue. BEWARE using red offensive elements it randomly picks**

an ally to be attacked with Hexahitter, which is more powerful than Whop.

Using Tablets or something to change the field effect's perfectly alright,

though. 606G awarded for winning, but still no level-up star! =(

| INVITATION: Razzly | INNATE: Green |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| After defeating Pentapus, simply open the fairy's cage. She'll introduce |  |  |
| herself as Razzly from Water Dragon Isle and join automatically. Razzly |  |  |
| has bronze equipment on her already, so she's readymade for the battles! |  |  |

Climb up the ladder to appear in a swamp screen, the one just north of the entrance. You can use the Green Tinkler to get back to the save point again, if you have it; otherwise it's the long way around for ya. Just don't jump down the pit again or everyone'll get Sprains! Continue north from the room that uses the Green Tinklers to get through to find two quadffids laying around. Try to defeat 'em and win some Bushbashers, since they'll be useful for the coming boss fights. Their rare drops're AeroBlasters, and are even better! There are only three quadffids in the forest, but re-entering the area will make them respawn.

Past there, save. Notice the dwarves standing around nearby? Don't approach them yet, since they're the bosses of sorts. Get the [ANTIDOTE] on the lower path and exit that way. There'll be a little pond here with a Quadffid in it and a small tunnel in the east where a dwarf's wandering around. Get the [OINTMENT] chest hidden in there and head back to the dwarves I told you to avoid. You'll probably want Razzly for these ones 'cause (1) she rocks many casbahs (2) is a green-innate (3) uses AeroBlaster and RazStar to a great degree! She's, like, the kewlest? Yeah. If you want to farm AeroBlasters, you'll need to reload from a save to make 'em reappear.

<!-- MIXED -->

Anyway, approach the dawdling dwarves for battle!

| Dwarf | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 150 | Uplift, Bronze Mail |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| DaggyDwarf x 2 | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 100 | @Fur, Bronze Vest |  |
| DaffyDwarf x 3 | INNATE: Yellow | HP:  90 | Tablet, Bronze Vest |  |
| ELEMENTS: ElectroJolt, ElectroBolt |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: --- |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: Hi-HoChorus (Yellow-innate attack on all allies) |  |  |  |  |
| Hi-HoWarCry (Yellow-innate attack on one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Hi-HoChorus to Attack/Hi-HoWarCry/ElectroJolt/ElectroBolt (×??) |  |  |  |  |

This can actually be quite hard for any green-innate characters. Razzly is good here because she's powerful against yellow types, but also because her fierce (lv3) attacks can hit up to six dwarves; even if she misses, she'll still probably hit a few. Hi-HoChorus is the battle opener and really digs into Razzly, probably doing about 70+. Much worse, it's used quite a lot in the battle...but it one dwarf of all three types to use. Serge's Steel Swallow can take two out if he uses Dash&Slash, so it's a non-issue. The demi-version of the attack, Hi-HoWarCry, is basically the same attack but is used by one dwarf to hit one target. With two RecoverAlls, though, this battle's a little easier. Just be sure to take out one type of dwarf as quickly as possible ("Dwarf" is easiest) or it'll cause lots of grief down the line. And, for god's sake, don't let the field go all yellow! ElectroBolt eventually gets used down the line, when Hi-HoChorus can't be

(I think). Beware of that. 650G awarded for a win, plus a 9th level-up star.

The chieftain retreats towards the hydra's spot, so save and get that chest

**below the water a [MEDICINE] by finding a hidden tunnel leading south**

towards it. Anyway, approach the Hydra when ready.

NOTE: If Razzly fights the boss, she CANNOT get her Lv. 7 technique on this playthrough. It's a shame...but Aaron of Hydros writes in to say that you can get NeoFio at this point if you desperately need a green character. See the section immediately following for intel.

<!-- MIXED -->

**NOTE:** If you haven't gotten Razzly yet, she becomes permanently missable

after fighting the Hydra.

```
| BOSS: Hydra     | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 700  | Upheaval, @Copper           |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: ---                                                             |
 | TO STEAL: ---                                                             |
 | SPECIALS: PutridOdor (Yellow-innate atk on all allies + Dizzy)            |
 |           WaveOfFear (Yellow-innate; decreases all allies' DEF)           |
 |           SpiritsUp  (Yellow-innate; raises Hydra's own DEF)              |
 | PATTERNS: Attack ×?? to PutridOdor (×??)                                  |
 |       [2] WaveOfFear + Spirits Up -> Attack ×?? to PutridOdor ×?? (×??)   |
 |           PutridOdor (used turn after offensive green element, if possbl) |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

This battle's not that difficult, really, as long as you pack lots of heal elements and decent weapon upgrades. Green elements are the fast track to getting hit with PutridOdor, though; luckily, if you use one right after it's used the skill, it doesn't seem to 'counter' it at all. This is the perfect chance to get in AeroBlaster or Bushbasher attacks, as both Poison/Afraid statuses'll be passive helpers here. In the meantime, try to do the attack-and-defend tactic and pre-empt Hydra's physical attacks when possible (it's attacks can do 20+). If you rely on weapon strikes and non- -offensive elements, however, it's quite possible not to see a SINGLE PutridOdor until the last leg of the battle. That might just be my luck, but I had to prolong the fight just to get a couple. Try it because it'll conserve your elements, too. If you didn't get an Upheaval element, you may want to retry for it. 10th level-up star received! Hoo-hah!

After some berating from the dwarf chieftain, claim the [HYDRA HUMOUR] as a reward from the boss' corpse. [NOTE: If for some reason Razzly is with, she will also notice the Hydra is with child.] On your way outta the marshes, an ally notices that there are no more dwarves roaming the forest... Anyway, that's it. Let's return to Guldove to check up on Kid's condition!

...You remember how to get there, right? Use the Astral Amulet at Opassa Beach and go back to Termina, where you'll take Korcha's boat back to the demi-human village. Yay.
