<a id="s3-16"></a>

## 3.16. PATH A: Guldove

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | CHARACTERS TO INVITE |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Guldovian Stitch Frame | • Kid |  |
| ___________________________________________ | • Korcha |  |
| • Mel |  |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

Once in town, visit the clinic and show (w/ Square) the Hydra Humour to Doc.

He'll cook up a strange brew antidote for her and help her get past the

critical period. Have Serge talk to her as she rests, and the next day, all

will be well. Sorta. In the middle of the night, Mel steals all of Kid's

**elements!**

| INVITATION: Kid | INNATE: Red |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| She rejoins at this point. Hooray for all of your super awesome teamwork! |  |  |

After Kid rejoins, there'll be a scene with Mel where she challenges Kid to catch her and get her elements back. Serge can choose to follow her or not at this point. Note that if you DO NOT, you'll lose the Guldovian Stitch frame and Mel as a playable character. Pick "You need those elements" and "No, let's go after Mel" to begin the chase. (NOTE: If you choose not to, it's still possible to get the elements back, don't worry - more on that in a sec). To catch this brat:

• Talk to Orhla at the town bar • Talk to the shaman shrine guard • Spot Mel en route to residential tower • Catch Mel at the residential tower

Mel is caught, Kid's elements are handed over ASAP. That's all! Nothing to see at town, really, since all the shops are the same. You've checked out the element shop that sells rare(r) elements, like Meteorite and such, ya?

---

<!-- MIXED -->

When you're ready to go, Korcha will leave the party and take everyone back

to Termina. Watch the scenes with Glenn at the town entrance to learn Viper

and his men have holed up in Fort Dragonia. Before parting, he suggests the

party visit an old man who lives on an island northeast of El Nido... We'll

**need a boat it seems...**

| INVITATION: Korcha | INNATE: Blue |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Korcha can be re-invited here, even though he left the party five seconds |  |  |
| ago (lol?). If you choose not to invite him at the docks, speak with him |  |  |
| at the Guldove residential tower to get the option for inviting him. |  |  |

Korcha will lend everyone his boat either way, given two ludicrous conditions for borrowing. Make sure to laugh at how stupidly stupid they are! </solt>

<!-- MIXED -->

**NOTE:** If you didn't chase Mel, return to Guldove and talk to Korcha to get

**all Kid's elements back!**

| INVITATION: Mel | INNATE: Yellow |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| If you chased Mel when you found out she stole the elements (instead of |  |  |
| letting Korcha get them back for you later on), put Kid in the party and |  |  |
| talk to Mel in the residential tower. She'll join the party, as well as |  |  |
| giving a [GULDOVIAN STITCH FRAME] as a commitment...gift...thing. Yay...! |  |  |
| Either way, she and Kid have a double-tech (DoubleTake) with each other. |  |  |
| She also comes with (surprise!) a Steelerang and Iron Mail. Nice to know. |  |  |

I'm not sure of the window for getting Mel, so it's best to get her as soon as Korcha gives Serge control of his boat. And, there's still a bunch of junk to do before continuing with the story. Skip it if you're not interested. :p
