<a id="s3-2"></a>

## 3.2. Arni Village

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | CHARACTERS TO INVITE |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • 200G                • Tablet [x5] | • Poshul |  |
| • Shellfish Frame     • Komodo Scale | _______________________________ |  |
| • PhotonRay           • Uplift |  |  |
| • AquaBeam            • Cure |  |  |
| • Uplift              • Heckran Bone |  |  |

| • Ivory Helmet        • Shark Tooth |  |
| --- | --- |

When sleepyhead Serge finally gets outta bed, check under the covers to find [200G]. The dark corner of his room also has a [TABLET] consumable. Hooray! Leave to the downstairs region and down into town square.

<!-- MIXED -->

**[LEGEND]**

**_) \ /12\ 1 - 200G**

**5 / / \ \ 2 - Tablet [x5]**

**/10\ 3 - Shellfish Frame**

|  | _ | 7 | __/4       /   3  \   \            7 - AquaBeam |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

10 - Heckran Bone 11 - Ivory Helmet 12 - Shark Tooth

- **There's a bunch of item-searching to do at this point. Down by the item shop**
  - [SH01], search the woman's cart to find a [SHELLFISH FRAME]. This allows the
  - player to change the textbox 'frame' under the main menu's Customize option.
  - Near Serge's house, talk to the large man standing 'neath a swordfish; agree
  - with him ("You're probably right!") to receive a key item [KOMODO SCALE]. If
  - you show the Komodo Scale to the kid standing around (w/ Square) he'll want
  - it for his crush; give it to him to receive an [UPLIFT] element. And, no, it
  - isn't possible to hawk it for 1000G. He'll also spit out some information on
  - Poshul... Hmm. Go inside the house next door to Serge's when done.

This place gives a good view of the pier. Search the teapot near Poshul's

doghouse to find a [PHOTONRAY] element. Yeah, nothing else to do here. Back

outside, exit left of Serge's house to find the chief's house. A bucket near

the steps contains an [AQUABEAM] element. Inside said house is a save point

(record of fate) but you can't use it 'cause people are hogging the line.

**Let off some anger by robbing the place there is a [CURE] element behind**

one of the pictures to swipe. Chief Radius (outside) will teach you element

basics in a battle setting, so try it out if you have to.

<!-- MIXED -->

Back at the town square, enter the house nearest the town exit. It's a cafe

to explore. Talk to the waitress if ya want, and check out the "barrel" three

times to get another [UPLIFT] element. In the back room, search the unmade bed

for a key item [HECKRAN BONE]! There's also an [IVORY HELMET] chest against a

**wall.**

```
| INVITATION: POSHUL | Innate: Yellow |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | Poshul is the town's wunderdog, pink and fluffy. She (yes, a female) can  |
 | be found outside Radius' house. She'll have no time to play with Serge... |
 | unless he shows her the Heckran Bone key item that can be found in Arni's |
 | cafe's back room. She'll join after that. If you forget to obtain her or  |
 | something, she can tag along later after some events and choices... It is |
 | recommended to get her now, though. <3 PO-SHU-SHU! (My fave char, btw)    |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

Next door to the cafe is a fisherman's house. An old man will give pointers on catching komodo dragons. The three tips will be...uh, field tested in awhile, so you may wanna know. Downstairs, talk to the king of the castle to receive a [SHARK TOOTH] key item. With all the extra shenanigans done, go to the pier 'n talk to Leena. She orders Serge to fetch her three komodo scales from Lizard Rock, then wait at Opassa Beach for her. Exit town!

<!-- MIXED -->

If you go around the world map, you can 'explore' places by pressing the x-

-button. Fr'instance, you can enter the waterfall (Divine Dragon Falls) and

scope the place, or enter Hydra Marshes. Make sure you've got Poshul along;

**don't let those li'l stat gains go to waste!**

| OPTIONAL: Cape Howl |  |
| --- | --- |
| Northwest of Arni, this cape extends towards the sea. Some Beach Bum foes |  |
| laze around here, and there are jets of water on the field that can prick |  |
| Serge and damage him (-5 HP) slightly. Get the [HEAL] element and [BONE] |  |
| components, which are the only things to reap here. |  |

Lizard Rock is in the south...just a hop, skip, and a jump, really. As far as

equipping elements goes, replace any Tablets Serge has with something else (a

healing element would be good, even if it's -1) and give Poshul something up

**her alley Uplifts, anyone?**
