<a id="s3-20"></a>

## 3.20. OPTIONAL: Hermit's Hideaway

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| There ain't any! | There ain't any! |  |

THIS PLACE IS OPTIONAL REMEMBER.

<!-- MIXED -->

With a boat in tow, head to the smoking island to the very northeast of the El Nido continent, as Glenn suggested. Enter inside and find an old 'friend' wreaking havoc and depreciating prime property values! Stop her quickly!

| BOSS: Harle | INNATE: Black | HP: 400 | PhotonBeam, Moonglasses |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Meteorite, PhotonRay, PhotonBeam |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: PhotonBeam / Moonglasses |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: MoonBeams (Black-innate attack on one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: --- |  |  |  |  |

With 400 HP, weak defense, and an element directly opposed to Serge, this is

definitely not going to be a hard battle. But, you may end up resetting this

skirmish for quite awhile regardless. This is the only chance in the game to

get 'Moonglasses,' an accessory that reduces all damage by 25%. Needless to

say, it rocks incredibly hard. Bring Kid along and try to steal it, and then

defeat Harle and see if you won it; if not, reset and try again. Shouldn't

**be too hard since Harle aims to make the field effect completely white.**

I couldn't find a pattern she has; it just seems to be random white elements

up her sleeve. She also has a special 'MoonBeams' which she only seems to

use when the field effect's mostly black; and, it only affects one, not all

like it should (dumbed-down like Gravitonne). <shrug> [NOTE: You cannot steal

the Moonglasses if you're on Path B...obviously.]

Afterwards, the old man Harle was searching for (Radius) shows up. Talk to him underground and hear his warning about ghost ships... And, that's all! If you inspect the front yard, you'll find a 'hot patch' of ground. This is related to getting a character also, but there's nothing to do about it now.

Speaking of the ghost ship, that's the next destination. Get in the boat and head toward that fog mass breaking over the east edge of El Nido's main isle. You'll get the option to delve into it or run away. Once entering, it'll be impossible to leave until the events are done, so make sure you:

• have iron equipment on everyone • Got some great elements from monsters and Marbule [SH05]

**NOTE:** Harle cannot be fought if you did S.S. Invincible events first! · **NOTE:** If you're on Path B (not saving Kid), you also go to the Invincible at

this time. Avast!
