<a id="s3-21"></a>

## 3.21. S.S. Invincible

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • AquaBall            • FirePillar | • Skeleton |  |
| • Panacea             • Capsule | • Wraith |  |
| • Capsule             • Gravitonne | • Tzetze Fly |  |
| • PhotonBeam | _______________________________ |  |

Once aboard, it turns out the ghost ship is a...p-p-pirate ship! The captain (Fargo) thinks Serge is Lynx's messenger, but he's straightened out quickly. To test the party's capabilities, Fargo sics three Man-O-Wars on the party; the second battle is against his pretty parrot princess......Polly! <squawk>

<!-- MIXED -->

**NOTE:** On Path A, these two fights are 'normal' and can be skipped completely

by fleeing; on Path B (not saving Kid), they're boss fights that can't be avoided (giving 9/10th stars)

```
| BOSS: Polly     | INNATE: Red    | HP: 540  | MagmaBurst (100%)           |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: ---                                                             |
 | TO STEAL: Sight Scope / Inferno                                           |
 | SPECIALS: Flap (Red-innate dmg on one ally)                               |
 | PATTERNS: Flap ×2 to Attack (×??)                                         |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

Polly mostly relies on her 'Flap' technique to do the damage, quickly

reddening the field effect. IceBlast and AquaBall're the ways to go here,

**with any other powerful attacks such as Earthquake, AeroBlaster,**

**ElectroBolt backing them up. As long as the field effect's not blushing**

bright red, Flap's easier to stomach. And, Polly's DEF isn't a big factor

when iron wpns are involved. Try to keep your HP high at the very end,

because it'll carry over into the next battle. 145G for winning.

<!-- MIXED -->

Time to tango with Fargo!

| BOSS: Fargo | INNATE: Blue | HP: 660 | Meteorite, PhotonBeam |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Strengthen, AquaBall, Carnivore, IceBlast, ElectroBolt, EagleEye |  |  |  |  |
| LoRes |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Capsule / PhotonBeam |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: --- |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Attack to Strengthen/EagleEye/LoRes to Attack ×2 to AquaBall to |  |  |  |  |
| Carnivore to Attack to IceBlast to Attack to AquaBall to Attack |  |  |  |  |
| to ElectroBolt (×??) |  |  |  |  |

- **out all that he's got in store, being some of the more powerful 4±4 types.**
  - Kick out the jams with AeroBlaster/ElectroBolt/Earthquake, and try to stop
  - him before he gets to Carnivore/IceBlast/ElectroBolt. His MGC isn't
  - powerful enough to kill a character in one hit, but it's still a source of
  - utter annoyance (Carnivore particularly). Dizzy and Afraid both work on
  - Fargo (and probably more), if you were wondering. Don't let its strategy
  - intimidate you...Fargo follows it to a 't', so you can prepare easier.
  - 551G awarded for the win.

Fargo knocks everyone out with jellyfish-stinger tranquilizers, and kicks 'em into the brig... Meanwhile, outside, an ACTUAL ghost ship pulls up alongside the Invincible. A Skeleton opens the door, and after fighting it, Serge and company can explore the ship in full.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. . . .**

```
UPSTAIRS       ___|_   _|___               |     [LEGEND]    |
                          |     | |    4|              |                 |
          .------------.  |3    | |     |              |  1 - AquaBall   |
          |           _|_ |_   _| |_   _|              |  2 - FirePillar |
          |  _________| |___| |_   _| |______          |  3 - Panacea    |
          | |_______     _______| |       KEY|         |  4 - Capsule    |
          | |___________/          ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯          |  5 - Capsule    |
          |                                            |  6 - Gravitonne |
          |             BELOWDECKS                     |  7 - PhotonBeam |
          |            _____   _____             _____  ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
          |           |1    | |START|           |5  6 |____
          |           |     | | SAVE| Locked    | PIP  __  |
          |           |_   _| |_   _| Door      |_   _|  |_|
  _______|¯|____________| |_____| |___/_______   _| |__   |
 |2                                   |_____  | |      |  |
  ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯      | | |  7   |--+--> EXIT/SAVE
                                 ___________| | |______| _|_
                  SHIP EXTERIOR |  ___________|__________| |
                                |__________________________|
```

Out in the hall, talk to the fatty pirate slumped against the wall to learn something wrong's happened (duh); talk to him again to interrogate who's got the key. As you go along, you'll have to rescue pirates getting jostled by skeletons to talk to 'em about the key. Luckily, Serge should be able to KO most of these black innates in a single turn...if you got iron weapons. >=p Crossbones are good sources of Iron, incidentally.

The room right next door to the save point has an [AQUABALL] element, while the passage's far west end contains a [FIREPILLAR] element. You'll have to mangle a few wraiths to claim it, though. Head up the ladder to the next room when ready. Head towards the first room on the right to find the passage's blocked by fire. Enter the room to find a [PANACEA] chest guarded by wraiths. So where to go? The room has an air vent that leads to the room next door.

Get the [CAPSULE] chest and saunter into the hallway again. Talk to the fatty pirate to learn who's on key duty before getting the key from that person. As soon as you get the key, go belowdecks and unlock that pesky door (note: no other locked doors can be opened). This leads towards the ship's exterior. NOTE: Sometimes the man upstairs does not have the key, and you'll have to search the mateys downstairs (or whatever directions the keyperson gives). Also, after getting the key, a man in the Aquaball room will give Serge his [@IRON].

<!-- MIXED -->

There's a pirate out here who will let you test his vitamin drink. Avoid this

since it poisons everyone more often than it heals HP. What'd that guy put

in there, arsenic? Work your way around the shipside planks until meandering

**back to a doorway.**

| INVITATION: Pip | INNATE: White |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| If you freed Pip from Luccia's lab in Viper Manor, or even if you didn't, |  |  |
| he'll appear here to enact his dream of sailing. Continually pester him |  |  |
| as he tries to hide until he stops near a stairway; he can join after one |  |  |
| more conversation. |  |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

There's a [CAPSULE] and [GRAVITONNE] element chest in this cargo area, also, albeit guarded by some monsters. After getting Pip, continue to a [PHOTONBEAM] chest and the savepoint beyond. This leads to the topdeck where Fargo and his crew are fightin' stuff. Defeat the three wraiths set on your tail and ready yourself for...MORTAL KOMBATTTTTT!

| BOSS: Dead Head | INNATE: Black | HP: 700 | HellSoul, HellBound |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Imbecile |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: GravityBlow / Bronze Axe |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: Death'sOdor (Black-innate damage to all allies + Cursed) |  |  |  |  |
| DarkBreath  (Black-innate damage to one ally + Darkness) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Diminish -> Death'sOdor to DarkBreath to Attack to Death'sOdor |  |  |  |  |
| to Imbecile to Attack (×??) |  |  |  |  |

Diminish makes all elemental damage halved for awhile, so if anyone happens

to have a Magnify on-hand, that can immediately tip the scales towards more

damage. Death'sOdor can inflict 'cursed,' which runs down an ally's stamina

as s/he's damaged; Darkness is, as you may've guessed, decreased physical

accuracy. Serge's Steel Swallow can still carve Dead Beat like potroast, so

as long as you're not completely (offensive) element-dependent, it won't be

**such a hard time. The boss's physical attacks aren't that damaging heck,**

**no elements/skills really are with Diminish in effect so this's nearly**

a battle of attrition, seeing who can hold out the longest. One funny thing

is that both of its special attacks can MISS, and often do. 425G awarded at

the end, with an 11th level-up star! [Leandro Sayago mentions that the boss

is immune to HolyLight in its entirety, something that can be found out on

NG+. Interesting!]

The sea returns to normal after vanquishing the Dead Head. Fargo suggests a pitstop at Water Dragon Isle before entering Mt. Pyre, so that the dragon can give his protection against the scorchin' flames. This is optional, but it'll make everything 23423432 times easier. Of course, if you already visited said island, you'd know there's a sheet of ice protecting the inner sanctum. So... it's off to the Home World for it!

Marbule's got a new shop now that sells trap elements! Meaning, once a trap is used in battle, the next time a foe would use that element, it's captured (creates a copy in inventory) and all damage it would've dealt is evaded. A truly useful way to get rarer elements. Magnify and Diminish are sold, too, and Guldove's shop updates as well, selling MeteorShower and RecoverAll.

Those feeling the spender's urge shouldn't bother with LVL 7±0 elements yet though, since they can't be allocated yet. The LVL5±0 and LVL 6±0 are the only ones needed, albeit not immediately...
