<a id="s3-24"></a>

## 3.24. Mt. Pyre

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • MagmaBurst          • Tablet | • HotDogitty |  |
| • MagmaBomb           • Inferno Trap | • Lava-boy |  |
| • Tablet              • Capsule | • CatBurglar |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

With the Ice Breath, you can freeze lava. You'll lose -10 HP per second while in the hot stuff, so take care! You'd be a fool not to bring a bunch of those Ointments/Capsules, yeah? Everyone should also have iron equipment/weapons at this time, hopefully. Checking out Guldove's element shop at this time is a good idea, since they sell RecoverAlls. Termina's also sells HealAlls and Lv3±5 attack elements. ___

| ____ |  | _ | 6 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 4        5 | 5 - Tablet |  |  |

**( (**

```
\______  |
                         |  _____|
                         | |______________
                         |  ________   __ \
          SOLT/PEPPOR -> | |        | |  \ \
                         | |        | |__ \ \
                         ) )        |   3| \ \
                    ____/ (         |    |/  |
                   |2     |         |_____  /
                   |____  |_________     /_/
                    ____|         _/------' <- ONE-WAY SLIDE TO 1ST
                   |1      ______|                           SCREEN
                    ¯¯¯¯|_| <- START
```

<!-- MIXED -->

Get the [MAGMABURST] sitting in the lava at the start; if you freeze before then, you'll miss it forever. You can still get plenty of MagmaBursts from those Lava-boys, though, so... <shrug> CatBurglars also have Poultice Caps that prevent burns, so you may want to get one of those; the status reduces defense power in battle. There's a [TABLET] chest near where that kittie-cat enemy stands, right before the ladder leading up...to Solt and Peppor! Ahaha. This is too much laughter to bear.

| BOSS: Solt | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 500 | Iron Vest, Sky Djinn Ring |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| BOSS: Peppor | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 483 | Iron Mail, Dragoon Gauntlet |  |
| ELEMENTS: BlackHole, BlackHole Trap |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Solt   = Nostrum / Kung Fu Shoes |  |  |  |  |
| : Peppor = Pendragon Sigil B / Nostrum |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: --- |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: (Solt  ) BlackHole Trap -> Attack ×?? |  |  |  |  |
| (Peppor) BlackHole -> Attack ×?? |  |  |  |  |

As usual, the pair mangles an attempt at killing the party by messing up in royal fashion again... Peppor will attack Solt a few times to shake common sense into him, so that wastes a few turns. Besides the normal routine, they attack a few times physically compared to their single blows before. Uh...I don't know why they only use elements when they're weakened, but that's how it goes. Besides that, they've got buffed physical/magical defenses, but are still the same crappy soldiers at heart. I haven't seen 'em use elements in normal play, so there's a reason this is a 1/10-difficulty battle. An easy 1045G earned. [NOTE: A 12th level-up star is only awarded if you skipped Water Dragon Isle's 'Ice Breath' quest completely.]

Exit east afterwards and freeze the lava for safe walking. Slide down the flow pointing 'south' towards the foreground and get the [MAGMABOMB] chest as you do. This shoots one back into the first screen, so it's only a short hop to the second one. Exit north this time.

<!-- MIXED -->

In the left corner is a [INFERNO TRAP] element, but if you freeze the lava you won't be able to get it. After getting it, freeze the stuff and hit up the [TABLET] in the east corner. There's a [CAPSULE] chest above a ladder by there, too (don't get dizzy from the sulphur fumes). Take the main route up the ladder to the save point. Press on to the large bridge overlook point and play with a cute li'l helpless draggy.

```
| BOSS: FireDragon | INNATE: Red   | HP: 850  | Weaken, Magic Ring          |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: ---                                                             |
 | TO STEAL: Magic Ring / Wisp Cape                                          |
 | SPECIALS: FieryBreath (red-innate dmg on one ally + Burns)                |
 | PATTERNS: Attack to FieryBreath to Attack (×??)                           |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

This little teapot's about to blow hot lava all over your party! Despite its size, it can really break out the damage...if the field effect gets red. Casting Diminish can help against its natural red-innate attacks, while Ointments/Poultice Caps will prevent burns. Burning, as you're aware, lowers attack damage, so avoiding that will be wise. Luckily, at this point in the game, RecoverAlls, Weakens, and most other useful attacks are a dime a dozen; burden a character with a bunch of RecoverAlls if you're having trouble. Use its two attacks in a row to keep the field effect away from red (also the time you'd want to use blue attacks in order to use the FrogPrince summon, if you're going that route). One odd thing is that you CANNOT run from battle to heal up...at all; he immediately challenges you again. 730G awarded for winning + a 14th level-up star. [NOTE: This will only give the 13th level-up star if you skipped the Ice Breath sidequest.]

<!-- MIXED -->

The dragon retreats, commending your power. Go back and save/get stat bonuses before continuing down that bridge overlook...'cause at the exit, we square off with all of Viper's Acacia Divas.

| BOSS: Zoah | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 436 | Gold Earring (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| BOSS: Karsh | INNATE: Green | HP: 370 | EagleEye, Silver Earring |  |
| BOSS: Marcy | INNATE: Blue | HP: 525 | IceBlast, Iron Vest |  |
| ELEMENTS: --- |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Zoah  = Stamina Ring |  |  |  |  |
| Karsh = AeroBlaster / Iron Axe |  |  |  |  |
| Marcy = Silver Loupe / Dancing Shoes |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: Gyronimo (Zoah; yellow-innate dmg to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| Cat'sCradle (Marcy; blue-innate dmg to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| AxialAxe (Karsh; green-innate dmg to all allies) |  |  |  |  |
| DragonRider (Karsh; green-innate dmg to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| DragonRider (Zoah; yellow-innate dmg to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| StringPhone (Marcy; blue-innate dmg to all allies + Flu) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: (Zoah ) Attack -> Gyronimo -> Attack -> DragonRider (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| (Karsh) AxialAxe -> Attack ×2 -> DragonRider -> Attack ×2 (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| (Marcy) Attack ×2 -> StringPhone -> Attack -> Cat'sCradle -> |  |  |  |  |
| Attack ×5 to StringPhone to Attack to Cat'sCradle (×??) |  |  |  |  |

This is a perfect chance to break out any attack-all elements: Earthquake, Inferno, MeteorShower...it's a riot, literally. Been a long time since we've

seen these guys and the old dogs have learned a few new tricks. Karsh's now got an 'Axial Axe' maneuver that hits all allies; Zoah's Gyronimo hits one ally; StringPhone attacks all allies, too. Even with these new attacks, they really shouldn't be more than pushovers, provided you've got decent equips and have been getting those extra inbetween-level bonuses. As for order of operations, I'd take out Karsh first since he's the weakest, and leave Zoah for last since his single-target moves make him a big chump. 2330G awarded upon victory, plus your fifteenth level-up star. [NOTE: This only gives the 14th level-up star if you refrained from the Ice Breath sidequest.]

When Harle appears, tell her you'll keep going and exit onto the world map.

Fort Dragonia's in sight... Congratulations: Serge, Razzly, Kid, Guile, Korcha

**Macha, Poshul, Leena, NeoFio, Skelly, Pierre, and Pip all should have their**

second (Lv. 5) tech coming into this fight.

Onward, brave soldiers.
