<a id="s3-25"></a>

## 3.25. Fort Dragonia

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Volcano Trap        • Flame Charm | • Cybot |  |
| • MagmaBurst          • FirePillar | • Alphabat |  |
| • Earth Charm         • ElectroBolt | • Combat |  |
| • Bushbasher          • HealAll | • Googhoul |  |
| • Antidote            • AeroBlaster | • Paper Boy |  |
| • Tornado Trap        • Sea Charm | • Dragoon |  |
| • FrogPrince (?)      • Capsule | • Acacia PVT |  |
| • MeteorShower        • Angel Charm | • Acacia SGT |  |

**NOTE:** If you want an easier time getting through, you'll want traps of the · **following sort:** Iceberg, HolyLight, Inferno, Volcano. These will not

be available for awhile following this dungeon, so make sure you have some extras to use on future bosses (and they will come in handy!).

NOTE: You'll fight a 'Dragoon' at the entrance if you missed Water Dragon Isle's events and did not get the FrogPrince summon. This enemy will drop said summon and give the 15th level-up star. (He won't appear on New Game Plus, though... o_O)

<!-- MIXED -->

This gigantor 'impenetrable' fortress may look like a cakewalk since one can walk into it without opposition...but there's still a lot of things to clean up 'round here. For one, there are numerous bosses in different rooms, and they represent most of the elements. You may want to change your lineup to deal with them better, but for me, I'm sticking with my main three: Serge, Kid, Razzly. The main object for this first stretch is to deactivate colored pillars that look like obelisks of sort. You'll know 'em when they're found.

| FORT DRAGONIA - RED ROOM! |

```
|                                |   All paths on this first floor lead to a
|         Blue    Green          |   boss, except the Red one and the Yellow.
|            \_   _/             |   Red'll be the first destination we go
|            | |_| |             |   to. Exit east from the four-way branch,
|           /       \            |   two screens to the main area.
|         _/ ELEVATOR\_          |
| Yellow-|_           _|-Red     |   There will be a statue here that faces
|          \SAVE     /           |   in some direction. Whatever direction it
|           \__ _ __/            |   faces represents NORTH, and the cardinal
|              | |               |   directions (west/east/south) are adjusted
|              | |               |   to fit that. Inputting an option plummets
|              |_|               |   the player into one of four holes, only
|              | |               |   one of which contains the pillar. Even
|  Entrance -> |_|               |   though the 'watchkeeper' statue changes
|                                |   position each time a character falls into
```

**a hole, the holes themselves don't differ.**

_ |_| _ The holes around the statue look like: |_| _ |_| <- This is the correct |_| hole to fall into!

<!-- MIXED -->

As said, whatever way the statue faces represents north; by that logic, pick

the direction that would extend over that hole. If the statue looks north,

pick east; if it looks south, pick west. And so on. Only the northern hole

leads to enemy encounters (Cybots)

NORTHERN HOLE                    so there shouldn't be much trouble

**here. Plus, there are infinite**

```
___     |PILLAR |    retries to get it right...you'll
               ______   |    |_____  |    only need two, I hope.
 WESTERN HOLE-|_     |  |  ________| |
                |    |_ |_| _______| |
                |_   __|   |_______  | <-EASTERN    [LEGEND]
               ___| |_   _   _   _ | |   HOLE
              |_ 4|_|3|_| |_|2|_|1|| |               1 - Volcano Trap
               /|_________________|| |               2 - Flame Charm
 SOUTHERN HOLE'  __________________| |               3 - MagmaBurst
                |____________________|               4 - Fire Pillar
```

<!-- MIXED -->

Once the pillar is lit up, the pattern in the branch room will light up to signify it. Head towards the Yellow Room, now.

| FORT DRAGONIA - YELLOW ROOM! |

I won't draw a map for this one, since the room itself changes. Overview: it is a maze with moving parts! How it moves depends on the party formation, as it goes. Make your way through the maze to the western entrance and inspect the pedestal. "We Dragonians are comprised of a head, body, and tail. Thou must change the order of the head, body, and tail to unveil a new path," it says. "B" stands for Body; "T" stands for Tail; "H" stands for head.

After the speech, your party order is registered as T-H-B. So, if you have Razzly/Serge/Kid, Razzly's the 'Tail,' and so on. To proceed we'll have to change the order to H-B-T, which makes up how the Dragonians were.

Outside the door, there's a glowing blue pad that can change the formation slightly. Use the Select button to switch party leaders and experiment with the pad (you should only have to use it once to get the end HBT formation) until you have the correct lineup. Using the above example, I've changed from Razzly/Serge/Kid -to- Serge/Kid/Razzly. Inspect the pedestal once again to change the maze room. [REMEMBER - The combination for solving this puzzle may be different than the example presented!]

<!-- MIXED -->

After the correct combination is done, enter the maze and use the switched- -around walkways to get the blue switch. This will lower some stairs by the maze's entrance across the room. A B-T-H formation get the [EARTH CHARM] in a chest, while a T-H-B order can get the [ELECTROBOLT] chest via the stairs that were opened. Use the T-B-H order to make some headway into leaving this place. After confirming it, use the stairs near the maze entrance to reach a control panel that lowers that yellow obelisk. Switch it off, mission is accomplished! Save at the main room and dive in, yo.

| FORT DRAGONIA - GREEN ROOM! |

```
____|¯|-PILLAR/BOSS
      |  ____|               ______________
      | |  _____________    |  __________  |
      | | |  _________  |  _| |_         | |         [LEGEND]
      | | | |_ _____  | | |  _  |        | |
      | | | |6|  _  |_| | | | | |        | |          5 - Bushbasher
      | | | | |  >| |>  | | | | |  ____  | |          6 - HealAll
      | | | | |___| |_  | | | | | | _  |_| |          7 - Antidote
      | | | |    <| |<  | | | | | | >| |>  |          8 - AeroBlaster
      | | | | |¯¯¯| |¯¯¯  |8| | |  ¯¯| |¯| |          9 - Tornado Trap
      | | | |5|  _| |_____|_|_| |____| | | |
      | | | |_| |>| |>       >| |>     | | |
      | |_|  7|_| | |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| |¯¯¯¯¯¯  | |
      |___ ¯¯¯|   | |         | |  ______| |
          |_  |___  |      ___| | |  __  | |   Once mapped out, this place
            | |   | |     |  ___| | |9   | |   isn't so frightening. If you
            | |___|_|_____| |     |  ¯¯¯¯  |   haven't been keeping the party
            |_______________|      ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯    well-equipped in any respect,
                  |^|                          though, you may find this isn't
```

**going to be a fun stroll. It's**

Enter                      Cybot territory, ma'am!

As you enter, continue straight along the path to the next stairwell'd area. Bend under the bridge you used to enter and get the [HEALALL] + [BUSHBASHER] elements that are next to each other. You can continue arcing around the left to get an [ANTIDOTE] in the next screen if you want, but it's out-of-the-way a bit.

Back where y'started, make your way east into the next screen. In the south cul-de-sac area is a [TORNADO TRAP], while the real exit comes in a bit. Take the northern walkway until it splits into a new screen with two exits. The lower one leads to a [AEROBLASTER] element; the higher-up will lead to the pillar and the very first part of the maze.

<!-- MIXED -->

As you go, make sure to trigger the blue switch to lower a stair and create a handy shortcut. Save with your loot and continue along until the emerald color of a pillar (and boss) shimmers in yo' face.

| BOSS: Taurusoid | INNATE: Green | HP: 1600 | @Carapace, Iron Vest |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: HealAll |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Tornado Trap / Sonja Trap |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: BackDrop (green-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| BodyPress (green-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| Chokeslam (green-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: BodyPress -> BackDrop -> ChokeSlam -> [TO RANDOM STRATEGY] |  |  |  |  |
| HealAll (self; offensive yellow element counter) |  |  |  |  |
| [2] (Attack) -> [Tech] -> [Tech] -> Attack ×2 -> [Tech] -> Attack -> |  |  |  |  |
| [Tech] -> [Tech+Tech] (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| [3] [Tech+Tech] -> [Tech+Tech] -> Attack to [Tech+Tech] to [Tech] |  |  |  |  |
| to Attack ×1-8 to [Tech+Tech] (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| NOTE: Patterns shown are only excerpts (vague) to show harshness one may |  |  |  |  |
| face. They'll probably vary a bit in name, but this isn't far off. |  |  |  |  |

He'll use HealAll on himself if damaged by yellow elements, so stick with

the normal routine and those new techs you'll have. The main thing about

this battle is that all his techs (and he does use them a lot) are single-

-target and he's rather slow; it's not too hard to cleanse the field of any

**green traces. With decent equipment and no boosts you'll want to cast a**

**Weaken on him if you have it all his attacks do around ~70. However, once**

the first three turns are done, he seems to randomly pick an attack avenue

to go down; one is lenient and the other is very hectic w/ tech + tech runs

very often. Hope for the '[2]' since it's easier to deal with the consecutive

attacks. Make sure that field effect isn't fully green, either; this seems

to beckon those tech+tech instances. 1200G awarded, as well as the sixteenth

level-up star! (PS - Tornado is never cast. Don't believe the guides' hype!)

<!-- MIXED -->

Deactivate the green obelisk and let's move on to the last corridor...BLUE!

| FORT DRAGONIA - BLUE ROOM! |

This is fairly straightforward, with only three rooms to go into. There are three 'deposits' of treasure chests, but instead of having them give items, they control how movable paths work. The lit-up door near the entrance is the real destination, but the leftmost room leads to a [SEA CHARM]; the third room (eastmost) leads to a Dragoon enemy, which you may want to skip. [NOTE: On a NG+, the Dragoon and Sea Charm rooms are switched.]

<!-- MIXED -->

To make the path get to the destination entrance, use the 2nd cluster of chests to make the walkway turn SE; then, use the 3rd cluster to get a NW- -shooting path. Hit the button at the doorstep to create a shortcut to the main road. Return and save before approaching the blue obelisk, which is of course guarded by a fun plaything...

| BOSS: GiantGloop | INNATE: Blue | HP: 840 | AquaBall, IceBlast |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: BlueField, IceLance, Iceberg, IceBlast, CureAll |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Antiviral Cap |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: TakeIn (blue-innate damage to one ally + Flu) |  |  |  |  |
| GooeyGoo (targets all allies; lowers EVD% if it hits) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: GooeyGoo to TakeIn to Attack to BlueField to IceLance to |  |  |  |  |
| IceBlast to Attack (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| Iceberg (when weakend, counters offnsive red elmnt if HP<12.5%) |  |  |  |  |

This thing will use the trappable Iceberg attack when weakened, so you'll probably want to steal it. The thing is, only someone with a Lv. 6 slot can get it. You'll have to use someone like Luccia, Greco, Mojo...they've all got said slot at 16 Stars. The reason I recommend this is because it's (1) an awesome attack (2) said characters can be obtained on any path (3) it's possible to trap the element, flee, and still retain it. Just a head's up since if you're a big fan of, say, Leena, you'll want this great element. It's very damaging if it hits you, especially after BlueField; make sure to trap it each time you want to use a red element in its weakened state! This shouldn't be too hard of a battle if you've got any great red elements such as MagmaBurst, RedPin, FirePillar, Inferno... For those with 20 MGC, it'll be easy to do over 200+ with MagmaBurst, fr'instance, and even more should the person be red-innate. This battle should be a cinch to win, but you'll have to play it safe in the last stage if you're not trapping the element. 800G and the 17th level-up star awarded for a win here. [Some people have reported the boss using CureAll on the allies, but this doesn't fit in w/ any attack pattern...seemingly.]

<!-- MIXED -->

Deactivate the blue obelisk here and return to the main 4-way branch room to find the floor's created a large elevator to the higher parts. Save 'fore you enter it, of course, 'cause things are never as easy as touch and go w/ this game... Make sure to equip that Iceberg to your characters if you're using a blue innate, because it can go as far as -2 (Lv4) in the grid! Don't come into battle without a HolyLight trap!

| BOSS: SunOfAGun | INNATE: White | HP: 365 | @Iron |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: AntiBlack, HolyLight, WeakMinded, StrongMinded, MeteorShower, |  |  |  |  |
| PhotonBeam |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: @Screw |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: Kissy-Wissy (white-innate dmg on an ally + Asleep) |  |  |  |  |
| ModeChange (white-innate; randomly changes faces, atk patterns) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: The boss strategy changes depending on its facial expressions. |  |  |  |  |
| -------------------.------------------------------------------------------- |  |  |  |  |
| [1] (Happy) | Attack -> Kissy-Wissy + ModeChange |  |  |  |
| [2] (Blank) | AntiBlack -> HolyLight + ModeChange |  |  |  |
| [3] (Frown) | WeakMinded -> StrongMinded + ModeChange |  |  |  |
| [4] (Angry) | Attack -> PhotonBeam + MeteorShower + ModeChange |  |  |  |

**' ' '**

The boss may have un-phenomenal HP, but it's defense is more than up to the task of buffeting your attacks. Someone with 20+ MGC can still do ~20 dmg with a Lv. 5 element! That doesn't mean it's attacks are particularly hard, but it's still rather annoying. It uses 'ModeChange' to change its attack patterns; its blank mode has the trappable HolyLight attack which is great for damaging black-innates and automatically killing undead enemies. Should you get the 'angry' face (frown + teeth bared), heal up because it'll use three attacks in a row on its second turn! Imbecile helps in this case, as its damage increases as the field effect whitens. Try to trap multiple HolyLights since anyone can use 'em. Remember that you can trap it, flee the battle, and return to get more! This will be very useful against the upcoming black-type boss... Anyway, black attacks or powerful physical damage (Serge can do 35+ probably) are the way to go here; if you're big on Guile, WandaSwords is a boss massacrefest. 840G awarded for winning, as well as the 18th level-up star.

Save and deactivate the white pillar before getting on the elevator. Take it down to see some broken incubators; take it up to get to the real destination we're looking for. If you haven't gotten any Inferno/Volcano traps in Marbule yet, go get some before heading up.

<!-- MIXED -->

You'll be quick to notice that this second floor of Ft. Dragonia's the same

one that was played in the game's dream sequence. Get the [CAPSULE] by the

central teleport and make your way down the stairs into the next screen. Do

away with the dragoon patrolling the area and curve back into the previous

screen, taking the next stairway, too. There is a [METEORSHOWER] element and

an [ANGEL CHARM] past the small doorway nearby. We all know where we need to

**go, though the black obelisk! Take the [DAEMON CHARM] guarded by a single**

Acacia SGT before entering. There's a fun, fun boss beyond...

| BOSS: Bunyip | INNATE: Red | HP:  400 | n/a, n/a |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | INNATE: Black | HP: 1000 | Gravitonne, HellBound |  |
| ELEMENTS: MagmaBomb, Inferno, FirePillar, Volcano, FreeFall, Gravitonne, |  |  |  |  |
| GravityBlow |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: FreeFall / BlackHole Trap |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: DevilThunda (black-innate dmg to all allies) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: MagmaBomb -> Inferno -> Attack ×2 -> FirePillar -> Volcano -> |  |  |  |  |
| Attack ×2 -> MagmaBomb -> Inferno -> [Changes to 2nd pattern] |  |  |  |  |
| [2] Attack to Gravitonne to FreeFall to DevilThunda to Attack to |  |  |  |  |
| GravityBlow to DevilThunda (×??) |  |  |  |  |

This is one of the best fights in the game, not only because it's a two- -parter, but because it's an easy source of Inferno and Volcano elements. They're only used in the first part of the fight, however, so you'll have to get 'em and flee for more. Bunyip's first pattern ends with him changing to his second form, which is a black-innate and uses the trappable FreeFall element. That's the reason I suggest trapping his red elements; not only does it help evade a bunch of damage, but you save useful elements for the real fight. MeteorShower, HolyLight, and Luminaire will quickly carve down its HP, so all that really has to be done is healing every 2-3 turns with HealAll [etc.] after DevilThunda is used. Trap a few FreeFalls if you can, because they'll be very useful down the line after some...twists and turns. As long as you keep the field away from an all-black lineup, this battle'll be more than managable. 1300G awarded for winning, plus the 19th level-up star. I hope you got a bunch of trappable elements, because you won't ever regret it. <3

The teleporter in the main room now works, following the unfurl'd path as

the dream sequence did. Go back and save, get those level-up bonuses on all

**your fave characters you won't be able to use 'em for awhile after some**

upcoming events.

**NOTE:** In quite awhile there will be a boss that has lots of elements that're

able to be trapped. Traps won't be able to be purchased, though, so if you want any Inferno, Deluge, ThundaStorm, HolyLight, FreeFall, or Carnivore traps, buy them now to prepare! You won't regret it. Really!

<!-- MIXED -->

Use the teleporter when ready to reach the boss...well, one of them. It's just inside that door...

```
| BOSS: Gen. Viper | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 820 | Dragoon Gauntlet/Mythril Mail|
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| ELEMENTS: ---                                                              |
| TO STEAL: Stamina Ring                                                     |
| SPECIALS: G-Force (yellow-innate damage to one ally)                       |
|           AirForce (yellow-innate damage to all allies)                    |
| PATTERNS: Attack to G-Force to Attack ×2 to AirForce to Attack ×5 (×??)    |
```

**' '**

There's not much to crow about here, with Viper using pretty bland attacks that don't really make a scratch on anyone but green characters (and even then, not so much). Use this time to test out all those fancy elements that got trapped...Volcano, Inferno, Freefall. All will work nicely, because his attack pattern allows much breathing room for healing. You won't even need to use BatEye/Weaken probably. No currency awarded for winning, but a 20th level-up star'll suffice.

<!-- MIXED -->

Immediately afterwards, it's time to engage battle with our fated rival!

| BOSS: Lynx | INNATE: Black | HP: 1000 | Pendragon Sigil B/Sky Djinn Ring |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: (Various, since they depend on Serge's grid) |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Pendragon Sigil B / Sky Djinn Ring |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: GlideHook (black-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: GlideHook -> Attack -> [Serge's Element] -> Attack ×2 (×??) |  |  |  |  |

This strategy's kinda weird, since Lynx can use one of Serge's elements against him. Whatever he picks is then unusable on our protagonist's grid, making this sorta of annoying (he won't pick anything too useful, though). His only black-type attack is Glidehook, and'll often inflict 100+ damage, and even more if that's Serge. Bombard him with your trapped element lineup while casting HiRes/BatEye because his fierce attacks can easily KO Serge (there are times when he attacks three/four times in one go!). Thus, keep his HP above 150 at all times and over 100 for everyone else. Without any of his annoying counterattacks like he had in the previous battle, it ain't the same. Winning nets the player 666G (!) and the twenty-first level-up star. Things won't be the same after this battle...

After some shocking events, there's another battle. Since it's impossible to win in normal gameplay and is full of spoilers, I won't bother covering it in-depth (although if you do happen to win on a NG+ or something, the outcome will be the same). This ends the Fort Dragonia chapter, and boy was it a doozy. Enjoy the abyss...
