<a id="s3-3"></a>

## 3.3. Lizard Rock

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Fireball           • Silver Loupe | • Komodo Pup |  |
| • Tablet             • Bone | • SandSquirt |  |
| • Ivory Helmet | • Beach Bum |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

**REMINDER:** Make sure you fight battles to get those tiny stat increases 'til

they don't come any longer. You may have to fight a couple that

give nothing before some hefty ones come. Do this before fighting

the area's boss!

**5 \ [LEGEND]**

**\ _ K - Komodo Pup**

**\ / <-ENTER 1 - Fireball**

**/ / 4\ \ 2 - Silver Loupe**

EXIT__K /H ___/ | / ___/K/_/ /_ 3 - Tablet

**/ 1/ 4 - Bone**

```
|H/\_______    /      _______    / /¯¯                 5 - Ivory Helmet
     ¯    |  3/ / /      / __   /   / /                    H - Hole
          |    / (______/ /  /_/   / /
          |___/\    __   /________/ /
```

**/ / K /**

**2/**

As the fisherman in Arni might've said, there are three ways to catch komodo pups for their scales. The first 'secret technique' is demonstrated in the first screen. First, push the rock barring entrance outta the way and get the [FIREBALL] element. Spook the komodo pup to the left so it runs through a wee tunnel, which Serge can then block with the boulder nearby. Go around the side and lure it into the tunnel, where you can then beat it to death for the first komodo scale!

In the southern screen, find a beach bum standing by a rock. Destroy it and push the rock into the pond, making a [SILVER LOUPE] chest surface. See where that beach bum is walking on a log? Jump to there and enter the screen past. Kill the Beach Bum and re-enter the screen where the komodo pup fled, at a higher outlook point this time. When the target passes under the cliff, jump down onto it, initiating battle. Komodo Scale #2 obtained! Leave to the NW to find the third screen.

<!-- MIXED -->

This is the one where the fisherman alluded to "playing tag." The Komodo Pup will make Serge chase it around in circles, starting at the bridge back to its initial position. When Serge catches it and kills it, mommy dearest shows up to avenge her extinct brood (make sure not to waste all your good elements on the minions!)

| BOSS: Mama Komodo | INNATE: Blue | HP: 160 | SPOILS: @Fang, Tablet |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: AquaBeam |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: --- |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: Breath (blue-innate damage to all allies) |  |  |  |  |
| SquirtGun (blue-innate damage to single target) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Attack to AquaBeam/Attack to SquirtGun to Breath (×??) |  |  |  |  |

This momma only uses blue elements, meaning any red elements you can insert into the field effect will help reduce blue elements' damage (or just make sure you don't get a full blue field). It's attacks can do quite a lot of damage when powered up, usually 30+, so use Tablets to heal since that'll help decrease fire damage. The "attack -> attack -> defend" strategy works well here, especially against the Breath tech, which always follows Mama's SquirtGun. Fierce physical attacks may be a bit more useful here than any elements, but that's just me. Make sure both allies survive so they get the full effect of their 'level-up.' 264G received upon defeat and the first level-up star.

With the last Komodo Scale in tow, get the rest of the goodies 'round here. There is a [TABLET] chest under the bridge to get, and if you enter a hole by the exit, it shoots everyone towards the pond's higher part. Get the [@BONE] component and walk under the northern 'tunnel' to get another [IVORY HELMET] chest. Backtrack to the exit and leave.

Save if ya want, it doesn't matter too much. Watch the events at Opassa Beach with Leena. If you want to get her final technique "MaidenFaith" later in the game, answer that Serge does "remember the day" and "we'll never forget this day!!" after that. (This will be enough to get the tech, although there's a 3rd one later in case y'screw this part up.)

After some awesome scenes, listen to the best line in the game ("Do you think Leena thpontaneouthry combuthted?") before re-entering Lizard Rock.
