<a id="s3-34"></a>

## 3.34. OPTIONAL: Sky Dragon Isle

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | CHARACTERS TO INVITE |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Our Favorite Martian Frame | • Starky |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

Head into the third screen's expanse. There will be a little thing that flees from a treasure box in the middle. Inspect that box with a Star Fragment in your inventory to start a fun fight with...

| BOSS: MegaStarky | INNATE: White | HP: 2800 | MagNegate (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Meteorite, MeteorShower, RecoverAll, StrongMinded, UltraNova, |  |  |  |  |
| PhotonBeam |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Angel Charm / White Brooch |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: Raydiation (white-innate damage on all allies + AntiWhite) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Attack -> Raydiation -> Attack -> Meteorite -> Attack -> |  |  |  |  |
| MeteorShower -> RecoverAll/StrongMinded -> Attack -> Ultranova |  |  |  |  |
| PhotonBeam + PhotonBeam (×??) |  |  |  |  |

This battle is special because it lets one get the UltraNova attack early on. It's attack pattern changes depending on if it's in critical condition or not, and that's where the UltraNova is cast. Lynx can really rip into this guy with a Silver Swallow, doing about 140 per fierce attack; Harle'll be close behind if you've been upgrading her stuff, too. Because any black innate character will be at a large disadvantage, consider using Diminish at once (buy in Guldove) and relying mainly on physical attacks + Imbecile to get by. Remember that Diminish only reduces damage, not the potency of any curative elements. Be sure to set any traps before Raydiation, since it can inflict AntiWhite! Seriously, with Diminish, this fight is twenty times easier. 1000G awarded for winning.

<!-- MIXED -->

**Afterwards, Starky who's really pint-sized will steal the fragment and**

lead you on a chase around the area. Catch him with the x-button to learn he

really needs the fragments to fix his downed UFO.

| INVITATION: Starky | INNATE: White |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Learning that his UFO may be intact in the other world, Starky joins you! |  |  |
| Since he's white-innate, he can also act as a vessel for MagNegate-ing :p |  |  |

Talk to the NPC walking around here to get the [OUR FAVORITE MARTIAN FRAME] as a reward. He'll only do this if you defeated Starky, mind you. Should the player fancy Starky as a fun and usable character, there's one way to buff him up quickly. Put him in your party and go to Arni Village [HW] and waltz over to that large sawfish. Starky will extract a [PLASMA PISTOL] from within as well as learning "Thanks," which is just a joke. :p The thing gives +6 ATK, and Norris can use it as well (which is +11 ATK better than his default gun).
