<a id="s3-40"></a>

## 3.40. Isle of the Damned

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Earthquake          • Inferno | • WillO'Wisp |  |
| • Golden Tiara        • @Carapace | • Dead Beat |  |
| • Einlanzer | • WightKnight [x1] |  |
| ___________________________________________ | • Airframe |  |
| • Dead Head |  |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

This place is just as creepy as the Another World's version...this one just

has actual monsters infesting the place. Defeat the WillO'Wisp at the bridge

**portion to see something odd when killed, it drops a flame and burns a**

hole in the wall. This can be repeated elsewhere in the same screen, since

more of these enemies now appear and float around. Lure them to the 1 & 2

spots on the map (where there is a cave obviously hidden) and defeat them

to open the spots up. One has an [EARTHQUAKE] element (!) and the other is

a [@CARAPACE]. Enter the brightly-lit door to continue.

```
___|  ___|   HINT: Dead Beats/Heads, Airframes, etc. are undead. They can
 |  _____  |   be quite annoying, but die instantly if hit with a HolyLight
 | |_|E| | |   spell. If you have any, at any place on the grid, it rocks.
 |  ___ || |   This doesn't work in the WightKnight battle, though.
 | |3|4 || |  _
 |___|__|| |_| |_    /\
        _| | | | |_ / / ________________       [LEGEND]
    .--|   |   | | | |  \1  ____   ___  |
    |  |___|  <| |<  |   \_/ ___) \___| |       1 - Earthquake
    |      |   | | | |      |         | |       2 - @Carapace
    |      |___| | | |______|_________| |       3 - Golden Tiara
    |          | | |________ _ _________|_      4 - Inferno
    |          |_|_|        |^|     |    2|     E - Exit (to Garai)
    |             |         |_|     |_____|
```

**' '**

When we last came here (in the other world) it was impossible to continue on because Serge's team lacked the keepsake. This item allows passage through those mirror-like doorways. There are a few mirrors around, but the real way to go is under the huge spinal column, which brings Lynx' party to the left part of the mirror room (denoted on map). Use the mirror to proceed into the next room.

Down by the bubblin' mire, there is a covered cave and a suit of armor. Lure

**the WillO'Wisp down to the ladder (have fun with that ) and blow up the**

covered cave to find an [INFERNO] element. When it regenerates, lure it down

to that suit of armor to fight a WightKnight enemy. Once defeated, it leaves

a [GOLDEN TIARA] accessory. [NOTE: There is only one WightKnight to find in

normal gameplay, so you may want to wait until you have a Forget-Me-Not Pot

or just 'store' it in Sprigg's Doppleganger ability for the Grand Slam.]

WightKnight can drop a @Rainbow Shell as well, so you may want to restart

the battle a few times to see if you can get it. Either way, when ready, take

up arms and enter the evil, red-looking door nearby...

<!-- MIXED -->

Read the headstone (LOL!) and watch some scenes from Radius' past. Then it's go time, chumps!

```
| BOSS: Garai     | INNATE: White  | HP: 1987 | Dragoon's Honor (100%)      |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: ---                                                             |
 | TO STEAL: ---                                                             |
 | SPECIALS: TripleCut (white-innate damage on one ally + Fatigued)          |
 |           WillBreaker (white-innate damage on one ally)                   |
 | PATTERNS: Attack to TripleCut to Attack ×2 to WillBreaker (×??)           |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

- **of his WillBreakers, especially if you're a black-innate, that's certainly**
  - something to be proud of. Starky's the only character who can use MagNegate
  - at this time, so if you pack him full of 'em, that can be his main function
  - for now. A combination of both strategies will heavily raise the chance of
  - success, guaranteed. As for the actual battling portion, Lynx can slice up
  - Garai with a Silver Swallow, even better if LoRes/Weaken/BatEye is used --
  - none of these are affected by Diminish . Despite the useful strategies,
- **Garai's techs can still be poison for any black-innates, so coming into**
  - the battle with a load of CurePlus/HealAlls will be a telltale sign of a
  - wise person. Lynx is only really needed for attacking, so the third person
  - can be the main healer (if the second is the MagNegate-r). But anyway, you
  - already have the tools to get by now -- put them to good use. Nothing acts
  - as a substitute for upgraded equipment and decent elements, all of which
  - you should have in spades (Airframes drop Mythril, if you haven't been in
  - the mood to get some). Play it safe with Diminish and this battle will be
  - in the history books soon enough. 1358G awarded for winning, earning also
  - that 24th level-up star.

After Garai's spirit is laid to rest, the [EINLANZER] is finally obtained.

Return to Death's Door and Radius will wield the Einlanzer, destroying the Masamune (or does it?). The way to the Dead Sea now lies open. After picking up your jaw at what this place looks like, get the [ANTIRED] element chest sitting on the world map. Then, it's to the Highway Ruins.

**NOTE:** You can return to the world map, but the more you proceed, the more

places you'll have to backtrack through. Prepare as well as you can (Capsules and other consumables, for instance) before making a commitment.
