<a id="s3-46"></a>

## 3.46. Termina

<!-- MIXED -->

```
¯| ITEMS / ELEMENTS ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| CHARACTERS TO INVITE ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|¯
 |                                           |                               |
 | • Tear of Hate                            | • Zoah  -.--CAN ONLY PICK ONE |
 |___________________________________________| • Karsh -'                    |
                                             |_______________________________|
```

Porre has taken over THIS Termina as well, it seems. Enter the bar and the waitress'll unlock her door for you; enter inside and go behind the counter. Guile and her will be hiding here, but there's a secret room that can be accessed by using the x-button in the vacant corner.

It's none other than Karsh and Zoah back here. They tell their sad tale of how they found General Viper, and how Lady Riddel's been captured. The player can pick one of them to join the party since the next league of the game will involve infiltrating Viper Manor...again. Either is fine, but if you might as well pick Zoah because his Lv. 7 Tech is there. The Dragon Tear's shards are also given over as the [TEAR OF HATE].

You can still roam around town, seeing a few other party members that have 'forgotten' Serge in only a short while. There are some scenes to view at the element shop, and another at the smithy. A scene can play if you bring Zappa to meet himself (w/ a @Rainbow Shell in the inventory), but it turns out that no rainbow equipment can be made yet because the hammer's too weak! Once the Save Marbule Quest is over, we'll be able to make some... See [SH03] for an updated list of the wares.

After the bar events, head to the entrance to find Norris. An urgent security message arrives to say that Grobyc has arrived at the manor, whoever that guy is. Norris still wants Lynx to come meet him at the manor later. Good thing we're going there right now...
