<a id="s3-47"></a>

## 3.47. Viper Manor

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Prison Key          • @Humour | • Spearfisher |  |
| • @Denadorite         • Magic Seal | • Lantern Jaw |  |
| • Nimble | • Porre PVT |  |
| ___________________________________________ | • Porre SGT |  |

Enter the manor proper and watch the scenes involving Riddel and Norris. Go

to the parlor (ground floor, left side) to find Norris, who's eager to help

rescue Viper's daughter. The [PRISON KEY] is received, since she's being

held in the basement. Using the sewage system beneath the prison's the best

course of action, Norris thinks. If you have Zoah, make sure to stop by his

**room (ground floor, right side) and open that chest with him in the lead**

it contains his Lv. 7 Toss&Spike tech.

To get into the sewers, open one of the grates in the hallway outside the barracks, in the kitchen, or in the jail stairway. However, at this time, you can't really do anything from those positions; just let the rapids here (denoted with 'W's for water) lead into the cistern area.

<!-- MIXED -->

_

```
Kitchen    _________|3|
  (1-way)   | __________|
    _|_  _  ||                                 Third
    | |_| |_||                        _______  Valve
    |___   __| ___________           | ____  |/      EXIT
        |W|   |  _______  |____     _||    |-|      /
Barrcks |W|_  | | |VALVE| |<- _|->-|__| _| | |_____||_
Hallway |W  | | | |¯¯¯¯¯| |¯||_    |WWWWW| |WWWWWWWW|4|
   |    |W  | | | |WW->W| | || |->-|WWWWW| |WWWWWWWW| |
  _|_   |W  | | | | |¯¯¯|  ¯  ¯|->-|¯ |¯¯|  ¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯  |
  | |   |W _| | | |  ¯¯¯¯¯¯  |¯     ¯¯    ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
  | |___|W|___| |  ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
  |___  |W _____|
      |  W|______                                    [LEGEND]
      |  W|VALVE |---.   To Manor Jail
      |  W|¯¯¯¯¯¯    |         |                       1 - @Humour
      |_|W|____      |       _|¯|_____________         2 - @Denadorite
        |WWWWWW|--.  |      |2    ______ ___  |        3 - Magic Seal
         ¯¯¯¯¯¯   |  |       ¯¯¯¯|B    1| B | |        4 - Nimble
                  |  |           |____  |  _| |
                  |  |   _____________| |  ___|
                  |  '--|_____________  | |
                  |      _ ___________| | |
                  |     | |    _________| |_____
                  '-----|___|_________________  |
                                              |_|
```

CISTERN AREA \ To Viper Manor Well Area

Once in this cistern area, find the two barrels and push them into the water to create a makeshift walkway ('B' denotes barrel location). There's also a [@HUMOUR] chest nearby, no longer guarded by a soldier. The player will now be able to head to the sluiceway control; tighten the valve to make the flow go far slower. It will still carry one to the cistern, though, but now it's possible to get to any of the side areas. Return to the cistern area and go towards where the 'Viper Manor Well Area' on the map. You should scare a gerridae on a chest, and it'll fall into the water (It's a Delute element). Remember to get it later on. For now, collect the [@DENADORITE] chest and climb the ladder, returning to the manor's jail area.

With the sluicegate shut some, it's now possible to navigate the water in a small way. Enter the kitchen's floor grate to get the furthest upstream. Get in the water and walk right into the first sheltered area. Go up the passage to find a [MAGIC SEAL]. If you're wondering what that little blob is, when Luccia inspects it, she'll get her Lv. 7 tech. More on that later on.

For now, head back into the water and get into the small passage just south

of the Magic Seal passageway. Use this to get to the second sluicegate valve

which will open the way to enter the larger waterway on foot. Don't go in

**yet, though it won't do anything. Head to the third valve in the right**

screen. You'll notice it can be accessed from two sides... Open it to switch

the sluicegate and stop the heavy flow of water.

<!-- MIXED -->

Remember that gate we opened with the 2nd valve? The one that opened a small gate so Lynx could enter the water? Enter that now and wade downstream to a small stairway near the 3rd valve. Follow the walkway to the dead end where a [NIMBLE] is. That's the last treasure down in the soggy sewer. Use the tiny stairway near the Nimble chest to enter the channel near the exit ladder. Go to the 3rd valve, open it, and try to exit. Uh-oh, there's an infestation!

```
| BOSS: Roachester | INNATE: Blue  | HP: 1245 | Elbow Pad (100%)            |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: ---                                                             |
 | TO STEAL: ---                                                             |
 | SPECIALS: Jitterbug (blue-innate damage on all allies)                    |
 |           BugKamikaze (blue-innate damage on one ally)                    |
 | PATTERNS: Attack to JitterBug to BugKamikaze to Attack to JitterBug ×2 to |
 |           BugKamikaze (×??)                                               |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

Shouldn't be too much of a trial after Garai and Miguel's fights. Diminish when the battle starts, LoRes/Strengthen, and commence physical violence. Red characters will still get damaged some (~70dmg) if they take the brunt of a tech (and it does use them often), but it should be no problem for HealAll. Use Inferno/Volcano and try to inflict 'burns,' which will reduce its defensive capabilities by about 25%. 1076G awarded for winning, plus a 27th level-up star.

<!-- MIXED -->

Go up the ladder to find...three more ladders! Two aren't worth exploring, but Fargo is in the rightmost. Lynx'll give him the prison key to escape w/ the others. Save before entering the next-door room, 'cause there's a hellish hellion bent on hellping you to hell!

| BOSS: Hell's Cook | INNATE: Red | HP: 2800 | Gold Pendant, @Mythril |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Fireball, FirePillar |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: --- |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: SpiceOfLife (restores HP to self; ~120) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Attack to Fireball to Attack to FirePillar to Attack to |  |  |  |  |
| SpiceOfLife (×??) |  |  |  |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

Orcha's dark half is formidable if he's allowed to turn the field effect a dark red; luckily, his defense isn't that great and he eats blue-element damage by the chunks. Deluge can do 200+ in an able person's hands, so it's up to you whether or not Diminish-ing is a good strategy here. He'll heal himself every 6th turn, but not by much. Use Weaken/BatEye to help prevent some of his increasingly vicious physical attacks and go to town with Lynx and his swallow. That'll deflate that enormous HP amount pretty dang fast. I've heard people say that he uses Volcano, but I haven't been able to see it used, even when in critical condition, all-red field effect, etc. Pull out a win and get 1490G as well as the 28th level-up star. ____________________ ________________

| INVITATION: Orcha | INNATE: Red |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Orcha joins up automatically to make amends for his wrongdoings. Awright! |  |  |

Norris will escort Riddel out of the manor and to Hermit's Hideaway to check up on General Viper. If you want to get those level-up bonuses, try to enter either of the hallway staircases from the foyer to fight some Porre PVTs. It is kinda funny how they attack characters with the barrel of the gun rather than the stock. o_O

<!-- MIXED -->

Head north past the snake statue to find a few Porre PVTs to destroy. Send 'em sprawling around the room and take on the REAL boss.

| BOSS: Grobyc | INNATE: Black | HP: 2800 | Defender, FreeFall |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: HealAll, Vigora, Strengthen |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: --- |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: RocketFist (black-innate damage on one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| HairCutter (black-innate damage to all allies) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Attack to RocketFist to Attack to HairCutter to Attack to |  |  |  |  |
| HealAll to Attack to Vigora to Attack to Strengthen (×??) |  |  |  |  |

**Don't let some of his absurd attacks fool you he's not a pushover. His**

attacks won't bother Lynx or Harle, but they're still bothersome. Diminish

the field and BatEye/Weaken him to keep his damaging physical assault in a

more timid degree. He'll use HealAll to recover ~200 HP, which shouldn't

make much of a difference. White attacks are very effective; even at -1 on

the grid, HolyLight can inflict almost 300, and that's a telltale sign of

how poor his M.DEF is. The only element you've never seen here is 'Vigora,'

which helps reduce his stamina consumption...meaning he can attack far more

in one turn than he has (up to 7 times). Get a HealAll ready because he'll

most certainly do a lot over 120+ dmg. This effect usually wears off before

he uses Strengthen, luckily. 1250G awarded for victory, and the 29th level-up star.

<!-- MIXED -->

Immediately afterwards, there is another boss!

```
| BOSS: Guillot   | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 1001 | @Mythril, @Screw            |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: ---                                                             |
 | TO STEAL: ---                                                             |
 | SPECIALS: HotEdge (yellow-innate damage on one ally)                      |
 | PATTERNS: Attack ×3-5 -> Hot Edge -> (HotEdge) (×??)                      |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

It's got laughable defense, weakling attacks, and horrible HP. Only HotEdge is anything to pay attention to, which does less than 100 to neutral-innate characters under the influence of Diminish. There doesn't seem to be much of a pattern Guillot uses besides a random amount of attacks interspersed with a Hot Edge now and then. Sometimes he uses it two times in a row, so beware if you don't like Diminish. Bombard it with physical attacks while Weaken-ing it, or use your best green elements (Tornado, AeroBlaster, etc.) while someone has HealAll on standby. 0G received, mostly because this dork ain't a boss...of course it leaves no level-up star, either.

<!-- MIXED -->

After some enjoyable events, everyone escapes into the library tower. Guillot

has to be fought once again but it follows the same pattern as above. Defeat

it and climb up the ladder the prophet tells you about. Once in the dragon

stables, pick either option to see some crazy stampeding over those poor,

**Porre soldiers.**

| INVITATION: Grobyc | INNATE: Black |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Grobyc is designed to follow the orders of those stronger than him, so he |  |  |
| naturally wants to be Lynx' acolyte. He-joins-automatically. |  |  |

Everyone escapes in a boat nearby (how'd that get there!?) and lands on the world map near Termina. Mission: accomplished. Now, to Hermit's Hideaway...
