<a id="s3-49"></a>

## 3.49. OPTIONAL: Viper Manor

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | CHARACTERS TO INVITE |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Viper's Venom       • @Rainbow Shell | There ain't any! |  |

Porre will still be in control of this place, but if Norris is in your party, you can enter still. Enter the basement level and go into the storage room, being the one nearest the righthand staircase. This is where there are traps and such. Luckily, you can bypass most of 'em.

First off, remember how there was a soldier in here at all times, standing by the pillar in the corner? He's gone now. Inspect that pillar to find a secret button, which deactivates 'something.' Push the snake statue into place by the door and enter the secret passage. There are two chests here, and with the button pressed, the acidic spray won't prevent access to 'em.

The first is a [VIPER'S VENOM] special sword, tripled-bladed and only usable by Viper. The other is a [@RAINBOW SHELL]! That's all for this part, but a few more things need to be taken care of. Take Norris up to the ground-floor parlor to meet himself. He'll get his Lv. 7 tech 'TopShot'!

One more thing...remember in the room with the pillars and armchair elevator?

There's always been a east wing passage guarded by a robot, but after all of

the Guillot events, it's gone. The room beyond has four snake statues and a

plaque that says "Respect my behind." When all are put in the floor grooves,

a chest appears; approach it from behind to open it. If you approach from the

**front, you'll fall through a hole.**

The chest's empty but has a note left by whoever took the contents. S/he has gone to the Isle of the Damned and wants 'Sir Karsh' to accompany one there. This leads to the another sidequest that can be done at the moment, and will earn Karsh his Lv. 7 tech. Go there now.
