<a id="s3-51"></a>

## 3.51. OPTIONAL: Save Marbule Quest, Pt. II..

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Black Relic     • Valencian Cloth Frame | • Lagoonate |  |
| ___________________________________________ | • Mantarrey |  |

**NOTE:** This is NOT optional if you did the first part of the sidequest...

**NOTE:** The [VALENCIAN CLOTH FRAME] becomes impossible to get once the Black

Dragon awakens, so make sure it's obtained at Marbule [Another] from the demihuman who used to throw rocks near the entrance. Also, it can only be obtained as Lynx, and when he has two other demi-humans in the party!

**NOTE:** You can only do this second part of the sidequest if you did the first

part way back when (talking to Nikki and getting Irenes). If you did not, simply go to Another World Marbule and inspect the sleeping Black Dragon to receive the [BLACK RELIC]!

Make sure you're in Home World, now...

This last stretch of the Marbule quest relates to fighting the Black Dragon,

actually. To kickstart the events, put Fargo into the party and take him to

see his other self in the Home World's luxury craft, the S.S. Zelbess. The

non-wuss Fargo will berate his counterpart and force the newly-rechristened

Invincible to Marbule's coast. Now the violent part comes, as the song makes

the dream spirits tangible... Fargo will receive his Lv. 7 Tech 'Invincible'

**automatically! Now, the second leg begins enter the boat to make for the**

demi-human town... (You have to use Fargo, by the way).

The enemies around are Lagoonates and usually come in pairs. They're blue innate, so any powerful red attacks (Inferno, Volcano, red techs) will do nicely. With Mythril[+] equipment, their special 'Just4Kicks' attack should be doing in the very low double-digits range. Mantarreys' 'FlyLow' is more damaging, but still not by much. In total, there are 9 Lagoonates loitering around the field, with the eighth & ninth inside the town's large cave.

<!-- MIXED -->

When all are defeated, a dragon's cry will be heard in the far-off distance. What's the meaning of this? The Black Dragon has awoken in the opposite dimension, and can now be fought. The last stretch is just beginning... ____________________ ________________

| INVITATION: Miki | INNATE: Red |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Talk to her in the Zelbess' dining room and she'll ask to join. Hoo-hah! |  |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

Travel to Another World Marbule and find the Black Dragon in the town's cave up the stairway. Now, go to the Draggy! It'll be awake and want to test your mettle...

| BOSS: BlackDragon | INNATE: Black | HP: 3900 | GrimReaper (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Genius, Gravitonne, FreeFall, SealAll |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Black Plate |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: DarkBreath (black-innate damage on all allies + Cursed) |  |  |  |  |
| GravityBomb (black-innate damage to all allies + Cursed) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Attack to DarkBreath to Attack to Genius + GravityBomb to Attack |  |  |  |  |
| to Gravitonne to FreeFall (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| AntiWhite (counters offensive white element usage) |  |  |  |  |
| SealAll (may be used in critical condition) |  |  |  |  |

Bring Fargo along to steal that Black Plate, which will absorb ANY black- -innate attacks against a character. Fargo can also use the best healing ability at the moment, CureAll, so that's one more reason to have him. Use Diminish and Weaken at the start of the battle to destroy most difficulty it has. Its Genius/GravityBomb combo can still do 100+ even with elemental damage halved, which be indicative of its strength at full power. HealAlls or CureAlls are a necessity here, no matter the route one takes. You'd be wise to pack a few Imbeciles to counter its Genius elements, and Angel Charms for any people who will be casting offensive white elements. Don't bother with black elements, though, 'cause it'll just heal the draggy (this goes for all dragons, by the way). Either way, the skirmish'll be long and hard if you take the Diminish path, and even harder if you don't. Consider trapping FreeFall if you can't take the heat, and upgrading your equipment to Denadorite caliber if the Dragon buries you each time... Or MagNegate! 2154G awarded for winning, plus the thirtieth level-up star. DO NOT LEAVE HERE WITHOUT THAT BLACK PLATE! This will help in a sidequest later on... [SealAll may not be used, but it helps to be in good health when the boss turns sluggish, just in case. Allen Zeng writes that the boss is susceptible to AntiBlack, which can block out a couple of its elements.]

The GrimReaper element is a black-innate summon, which you'll want to stick on Lynx when he gets his first Lv. 8 slot. The [BLACK RELIC] is handed over before the dragon leaves...
