<a id="s3-53"></a>

## 3.53. Earth Dragon Isle

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Capsule             • @Mythril | • Fossicker |  |
| • @Mythril            • @Rainbow Shell | • Rockroach |  |
| • Explosive           • @Denadorite | • YellowBelly |  |
| • @Denadorite         • Yellow Relic | • Bomber |  |

We've kinda ignored the Earth Dragon Islands for awhile, but now it's time to dig in. Get the [CAPSULE] near the entrance and stick to the lowroad, where there's a large quicksand pit. Check yer inventory for Braces, 'cause they'll be very useful beyond...you don't want to walk around at halfspeed, yeah? Jump in the quicksand beyond the adventurer's warnings.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. < < < . ONE-WAY**

```
|                 |        /
                                           |       .->-->----+--->--.
                                           |       |       __|__    |
                                          |¯|      |      |     |   |
                                         /   \     |      |_   _|   |
                                        /  /\ \    |     ___|_|_____|_
      [LEGEND]                         / _/ /  \   |    |  _______4   |
                                      ( /  ( /\/|  |    | |_|^|   |___|
       1 - Capsule                    |3|  |2|( |--'    |___  |
       2 - @Mythril                   |¯    ¯ | |           | |____
       3 - @Mythril                   |         |           |     1|
       4 - @Rainbow Shell             |___ 5 ___|           |_|¯¯¯¯
       5 - Explosive                      |_|                 \
       6 - @Denadorite           _________| |________         Enter
       7 - @Denadorite          (  ____      ______  |
                                 \ \___| |\_/     /R/|
                                /<\6\<   |        ¯¯ |
                               | /¯¯¯¯¯¯¯            /
                               |R|          __  __  /
                               |  \_________\ \/7/ /
                               |            >\ \/ /
                               | (¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ \ \/ Save
                               |_______________\ \/    _
                                                \ \___| | <-BOSS
                                                 \______|
```

Once it's in the cavern, start spelunkin' by getting the chests by the sand fall. You'll have to re-enter a few times to get all the chests, since one can only pick a singular path once inside. If you want to escape at any time, there is a sand boil to the east side that'll shoot everyone back into the first screen. Both chests are [@MYTHRIL], by the way. When ready, shoot up the sand boil and have an (automatic) talk with the site foreman, who'll want to prepare explosives to help clear the way. Re-enter the island to find the thing's been cleared of the path. Speak with the foreman a second time to get a [@RAINBOW SHELL] as a reward. Down in the sandpit, the adventurer will hand over an [EXPLOSIVE] if you ask for 'em. They can move rockroaches, but only ones that are inert.

In the next room, find the rockroach sitting on a cliff and use the Explosive on it, blowing it into a sandboil. Down the way a little, there's a guy who's observing a rockroach's behavior. Ask him for his finds to learn the summary: "attack it by the cliff." When it stops on the bluff right above the sandboil, that's when you ambush it. After winning, choose to push it into the hole.

<!-- MIXED -->

There's a last [@DENADORITE] chest nearby, so pick it up. The ladder near the sandfalls allows access to the lowest part of the cavern. Fight the third rockroach and push it into the last (3rd) sandboil. The only sandboil left should be the one in the middle, and it can now function to blow Lynx up to the higher-up walkway. Exit to the SE and save, approaching the large sand flat... Say you seek the Dragon God's blessing, then get down to business.

| BOSS: Earth Dragon | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 3100 | ThundaSnake (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: --- |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Yellow Plate |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: GiddyBreath (yellow-innate damage to an ally + Dizzy) |  |  |  |  |
| NaturalGas (yellow-innate damage to all allies + Dizzy) |  |  |  |  |
| Catastrophe (yellow-innate damage to all allies + Sprain) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Attack ×3 to GiddyBreath (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| NaturalGas (may be used if field effect is mostly Green) |  |  |  |  |
| [2] NaturalGas to Attack (×??) |  |  |  |  |

Once again, include Fargo in this battle so the Yellow Plate can be stolen. Unlike the Black Dragon, this one doesn't have a lot of elements to spam, so Diminish really isn't needed here. Weaken, because its physical attacks increase in length as the pattern wears on. Green elements work wonders as usual, but even moreso because it doesn't have any sort of instant counter like Black Dragon did. It's attack changes when put in critical condition, but sometimes it skips parts of it (like Catastrophe) by starting midway through the pattern. I'm not sure why it happens, but I suspect it depends on the turn when it's placed in critical. If you do it right after GiddyBreath, it might begin at Catastrophe; if not, it may skip a NaturalGas or something. Either way, it only uses its low HP pattern once, before returning to its normal mediocre stuff. Changing the field effect to the color of your choice with its [Attack ×3] turn. You'll be lucky to see the dragon's Catastrophe technique, since it rarely uses it, even with optimum conditions (critical HP).

The Earth Dragon hands over the [YELLOW RELIC] once it's smoked, so exit the island the same way you came in. Let's take on the next dragon...how about that of the water?
