<a id="s3-54"></a>

## 3.54. Water Dragon Isle

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Blue Relic | • Lagoonate |  |
| ___________________________________________ | • Sidesteppa |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

This is basically the same as the time the Hi-Ho Tank was fought, with the exception of Lagoonates populating the island instead of dwarves. Head into the depths, defeat a Sidesteppa blocking the dragon's entrance, and continue in for some killin'.

| BOSS: WaterDragon | INNATE: Blue | HP: 2800 | BlueWhale (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: IceBlast, Deluge, Iceberg |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Blue Plate |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: IceBreath (Blue-innate damage on all allies + Flu) |  |  |  |  |
| TsunamiBeam (Blue-innate damage on all allies + Flu) |  |  |  |  |
| [2] IceBreath to Iceberg -> [To Pattern #1] |  |  |  |  |

This dragon absorbs its own type of elemental attacks, so don't bother with

any Deluges or Icebergs of your own. Watch out for those double IceBlasts,

since you lose the battle if everyone gets frozen. It's not quite as slow

as the Earth Dragon, so you won't get cut much slack. Certain dmg amounts

seem to instantly change the pattern to #2/3, which is really just picking

**a different poison Frozen can make you lose faster, while Flu does not**

wear off in-battle. As the battle wears on, the boss cuts the fat off its

attacks and mainly concentrates on its techs and better elements. Break out

some HealAlls and pound away with red elements to wrestle the field effect

back towards red. One cool thing is that it's possible to burn the boss w/

certain red elements/techs (not MagmaBurst!), which reduces its defensive

abilities. You may want to use Diminish in the latter half of the fight if

you've got any red-innate characters. 2036G awarded for the win, plus the

32nd level-up star!

A [BLUE RELIC] is awarded for the party's valor. On, on, onto the next one! Well, how about we take on the fire dragon this time 'round?
