<a id="s3-56"></a>

## 3.56. Gaea's Navel

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Ancient Fruit       • Green Brooch | • Pterodact |  |
| • @Denadorite         • @Denadorite | • PreyMantis |  |
| • @Denadorite         • @Denadorite | • Prehysteric |  |
| • @Denadorite         • @Denadorite | _______________________________ |  |
| • @Denadorite         • Green Relic |  |  |

I haven't really mentioned this place because it's been inaccessible for most of the game. But, now...now's the time to come and defeat that dragon. Head to the Home World and go to the Hydra Marshes region. We'll need two items to proceed: the Beeba Flute and an Ancient Fruit. If you missed the former, and you shouldn't have if you took the 'Save Kid' route, simply go to the western part of the marsh and defeat the Beeba there to win it. The fight was rather annoying back then, but now we've got mass-attack elements to do our dirty work. For the [ANCIENT FRUIT], defeat the Beeba team again (same craptacular battle) to win the thing. From now on, this Beeba will give you Ancient Fruit key items when necessary.

Head towards the region where you fought Wingapede and talk to the Beeba on

**the branch. It says to blow the flute here do so to ride the Wingapede**

to Gaea's Navel. It uses up the Ancient Fruit for the round trip, which is

why one needs to get more from the 'friendly' Beeba. Now it's off to Green

Dragon's domain!

<!-- MIXED -->

This virgin jungle is the perfect place to find our quarry...too bad there's

**a stupid stipulation for completing it defeat a bunch of enemies here!!!**

If you leave at any time, the enemies reset. You'll have to do this all in

**one run!**

| INVITATION: Leah | INNATE: Yellow |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| This wild child joins the party temporarily while they're here, and then |  |  |
| officially when the Green Dragon's defeated. She'll leave if the party |  |  |
| exits in between then, though. Leah also has a double tech with Draggy. |  |  |

You don't have to defeat 12 enemy groups here, but it helps to be thorough I guess. The island is circular, so if you pick a direction from the starting screen, you'll eventually come 'round to that place again.

<!-- MIXED -->

[LEGEND] _____

```
| BOSS|      1 - Green Brooch     2~8 - @Denadorite
            |_   _|
              | |                 X
           _  | |____              \_         X        _______
     X -> |1| | |2  X|             |3|         \__    |  ____7|
         _| |_|  ¯¯  |_ ___________| |          \8\___|_|___ ¯
     .--|       |¯¯¯¯  | X       X   \           \________  |
     |  | START | |¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|¯¯\ \____________   |^|_|X|_____
     |  |         X¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯X]  |¯|X|¯         _  5 |  |X _____SAVE|--.
     |   ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯   |4|____ X_____|_¯¯¯¯  _| |_____¯¯¯¯   |
     |                         |               ¯¯¯¯¯¯X       6|      |
     |                          ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯       |
```

**' '**

<!-- MIXED -->

The 'X' denotes an enemy. Ones without lines ("\") pointing somewhere denote ground enemies; the aforementioned ones WITH lines mean that a pterodact'll fly in after you claim the treasure. After defeating enough enemies, in the first screen, the comical boss appears!

```
| BOSS: Tyrano    | INNATE: Red    | HP: 1600 | Resistance Ring (100%)      |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: ---                                                             |
 | TO STEAL: Power Seal / Gold Earring                                       |
 | SPECIALS: CrunchOut (Red-innate damage to one ally + Sprain)              |
 | PATTERNS: Attack (×??)                                                    |
 |       [2] CrunchOut to Attack ×2 (×??)                                    |
 |           CrunchOut (used immediately when placed in critical condition)  |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

It's accompanied by a Pterodact, which you should eliminate indirectly thru mass-attack elements. Tyrano's is a sort of throwback to the ol' C. Trigger days of reptites. Luckily, it brings neither the furor or potential damage that its ancient brethren can. Deluge can deal 200+ on its own, while any better blue-innate (BlueWhale, FrogPrince, etc.) can deal twice that in a single hit. It's pretty crappy from the get-go, but you may want to Diminish when it's HP is in critical 'cause CrunchOut can do mucho damage to any blue character (200+) and inflict Sprain. The Red Plate will make this match even easier, though, not that it's needed. 1718G awarded and the 34th lvl-up star as well.

<!-- MIXED -->

Leah will lead everyone to the Green Dragon's den automatically, but one can still go back and safely save. Approach Green Dragon and...it'll want to have you for lunch! ___________________ _______________ __________ ____________________________

| BOSS: GreenDragon | INNATE: Green | HP: 3700 | Genie (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: GreenField, Carnivore, HealPlus |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Green Plate |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: BadBreath (green-innate + Darkness/AntiYellow/Fatigued) |  |  |  |  |
| ToxicBreath (green-innate damage to one ally + Poison) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: BadBreath/GreenField (×??) -> (ToxicBreath) |  |  |  |  |
| [2] Carnivore (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| HealPlus (used when in critical condition; heals about 430 HP) |  |  |  |  |

As before, don't use green-innate elements; it'll absorbs 'em + some techs.

This battle can be annoying for yellow types because of 'GreenField,' which

turns the field innate all green. This leads into the second pattern, being

a bunch of Carnivores. BadBreath does no damage whatsoever but can inflict

a random status effect, such as AntiYellow, Fatigued, etc...not too much to

worry on; ToxicBreath can inflict poison and small damage, and is also not

a problem. It rarely uses physical attacks due to its...uh, slothy nature,

so as long as you keep the field away from a full green, it'll often waste

its attack turn with support attacks. Its physical attacks are pretty bad,

**anyway no spin put on that. Unless you have trouble keeping Carnivores**

out of your face, there's really no need to Diminish here. You'll know it's

almost defeated because it will bob its head up and down, mouth open. Take

it down quickly or HealPlus may erase some of your damage. It uses so many

non-offensive tactics that one might not even have to heal! 1110G awarded

for winning, plus the 35th level-up star.

The dragon bestows the [GREEN RELIC], and Leah will join permanently whether you want her to or not. She's such a cutie-pie, how could you resist, you... horrible monster! To leave, return to the first area where the large rock is and blow the Beeba Flute.

---

If you followed this walkthrough, the only relic-holder left is Sky Dragon. Lynx should now have his Lv. 7 tech 'ForeverZero', so let's get on it!
