<a id="s3-57"></a>

## 3.57. Sky Dragon Isle

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • White Relic | There ain't any! |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

Whatever order you fight the six dragons in, the Sky Dragon'll always be the last one to be taken down. __________________ _______________ __________ _____________________________

| BOSS: Sky Dragon | INNATE: White | HP: 3800 | Saints (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Magnify, MagNegate, WeakMinded, HolyHealing, UltraNova |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: White Plate |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: NullState (raises Sky Dragon's M.DEF) |  |  |  |  |
| HolyBreath (white-innate damage to all allies) |  |  |  |  |
| WhiteBreath (white-innate damage to one ally + Fatigued) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Attack to WhiteBreath to NullState to Attack to Magnify to |  |  |  |  |
| HolyBreath to HolyHealing/MagNegate/WeakMinded+WeakMinded to |  |  |  |  |
| Attack to UltraNova (×??) |  |  |  |  |

As usual, it absorbs white elements and most techs. Cast an UltraNova trap

at the beginning, to ensure it's caught later on. If Lynx has the Stone

Swallow and decent ATK, he should be doing 180+ per fierce hit, so use this

as an outlet to do lots of damage. In a neutral field effect, WhiteBreath

completely SUCKS; it did 7 damage to Lynx! For once, you can use Diminish as

**a counter card do it right after Magnify to cancel it out and stop its**

HolyBreath from mowing anyone down (it can do 200+ normally to black types!).

Its HolyHealing element can restore up to 500+ HP, but it only seems to use

it once. I prefer to use Leah here so she can use PhysNegates and help keep

Lynx's HP up, 'cause the boss seems to single him out quite a lot. UltraNova

is only used when near critical state, but unlike what you may have heard,

it can be used more than once per battle. As long as one packs a few

Diminish elements to offset the Magnify, this battle's not quite as hard as

one would imagine it being. 2150G awarded for victory, plus the 36th lvl-up

star.

The [WHITE RELIC] is handed over, finishing the quest. Now all that's left before entering the Sea of Eden is taking off this...uh, 'Lynx costume' Serge has on. Home World Fort Dragonia, here we come!

...or you can do some sidequests before then. Skip to [D-41] if you want to stick to the story.
