<a id="s3-59"></a>

## 3.59. OPTIONAL: Hydra Marshes

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| See [OP01] for the full list. | See [OP01] for the full list. |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

The De-Hydrate can actually be fought as soon as one exits the Dimensional Vortex, but I've put it off until now for...well, no reason. We'll just get this outta the way now. Once in the marshes, head towards where the Beebas usually are and rescue one from a Snib/Snobgoblin duo. You'll know be able to go to Gaea's Navel, but that's not important at the moment. Head towards where the humans are at the very eastern part to find the ground's caved in and a strange odor is coming out. Jump down and the fight with our ghostly Hydra will begin... __________________ _______________ __________ _____________________________

```
| BOSS: De-Hydrate | INNATE: Black | HP: 1042 | FreeFall, Resistance Ring   |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: Gravitonne, BlackHole, GravityBlow                              |
 | TO STEAL: Daemon Charm, HellBound                                         |
 | SPECIALS: ---                                                             |
 | PATTERNS: Gravitonne ×??                                                  |
 |       [2] BlackHole ×?? (only when the field effect is all black)         |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

This fight's pathetically easy, but everyone will have 'sprain' status from

the fall, so if you want to be funny, use Revenge and put it on the enemy.

**Besides that, all its attacks suck only BlackHole can do anything worth**

noting, and that's because its % of instant death! It's easy to trap since

it's only used when the field effect's pure black. Note that if you flee

from this enemy, you'll have to go all the way back to the hole above and

jump in again. But, hey, easy BlackHole elements to trap. Pretty good

tradeoff. When you're finished farming BlackHoles, use HolyLight to defeat

it instantly. 780G awarded for winning. [Simon Wells wrote in to say that

sometimes De-Hydrate packs two GravityBlows in one turn; this is perhaps

due to usage of white elements.]

After defeating the enemy, you'll get Steena's Lv. 5 Tech 'HydraShadow' and can get the [PENDRAGON SIGIL B] chest. Nothin' else here.
