<a id="s3-61"></a>

## 3.61. OPTIONAL: Forbidden Island

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Mastermune | There ain't any! |  |

This can only be done after completing Karsh's quest on Isle of the Damned,

**'cause we'll need that MementoPendant. In case you don't know and you may**

**not since I haven't mentioned it up until now there is a small island that**

can be landed on, northeast of the central El Nido island. It's really tiny

and has little puffs of smoke coming out of it. It won't give a name if you

sidle up next to it, but you can still confirm (w/ x-button) and enter into

it.

<!-- MIXED -->

Put Riddel in the party at this time (and give her the Black Plate, if you want her to have a good chance of surviving). Talk to the man inside the house to have some incredible scenes revealed! Time for the x-treme showdown with... _________________ ________________ __________ _____________________________

```
| BOSS: Dario     | INNATE: Black  | HP: 3500 | Dreamer's Scarf (100%)      |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: Numble, Weaken, Recoverall, LoRes, BatEye, IceBlast, Upheaval,  |
 |           AeroBlaster, FreeFall, PhotonBeam, FirePillar                   |
 | TO STEAL: Nostrum / Pendragon Sigil A                                     |
 | SPECIALS: ConductaRod (black-innate dmg on one ally + Cursed)             |
 |           Dash&Gash (black-innate damage on one ally)                     |
 |           SonicSword (black-innate damage on one ally)                    |
 | PATTERNS: Attack -> Dash&Gash -> Attack -> SonicSword -> PhotonBeam/      |
 |           IceBlast/FreeFall/Upheaval/AeroBlaster/FirePillar (×??)         |
 |-----------.---------------------------------------------------------------|
 | v. Red    | Numble (lowers EVD% on element caster)                        |
 | v. Blue   | Weaken (lowers ATK. on element caster)                        |
 | v. White  | ConductaRod (black-innate dmg on element caster + Cursed)     |
 | v. Black  | RecoverAll (heals self for about 230 HP)                      |
 | v. Green  | LoRes (reduces DEF. on element caster)                        |
 | v. Yellow | BatEye (reduces HIT% on element caster)                       |
```

**' ' '**

This battle can be VERY hard if you blindly attack. He counterattacks all elements, but his fatal flaw is that it's not instantaneous; he uses up his next turn to do so. Plus, the elements he counters with are mostly de-buffs and aren't damaging. Riddel HAS to be in the party, but if you just want to get through it, give the Black Plate to Lynx so he can coerce Dario into a bunch of ConductaRods while everyone else focuses on red elements. Dario's backed by strong DEF so Diminish-ing the field isn't a smart idea. There's also one reason that red elements are the way to go: burning! Dario can be inflicted with 'burns' which reduces his DEF power (he can also be slapped with Sprain if you can stand the BatEye elements). The way he picks the attack to use at the end of his pattern is simply the opposite color of the last element used; this gets done on the last person to attack him, so with red elements being used, the Blue Plate'll help (but won't prevent Frozen). No matter how you slice it, the possibility of only the Black Plated ally surviving is still high. Because there's no level-up star awarded, don't fret about people being KO'd here. 2500G awarded for victory.

Afterwards, the Masamune will be de-cursed and will find a new owner: Serge! This time, it transforms into the [MASTERMUNE], replacing his Sea Swallow. NOTE: Since the Sea Swallow _is_ the Mastermune, it cannot be carried over into a New Game Plus. If you want a great weapon to start with, forge the 'Spectral Swallow' from a @Rainbow Shell. As a kicker, Riddel's Level 7 Tech 'SnakeFangs' will be earned here as well. You'll be amazed to see just how often your new weapon criticals.

There's another quest that stems off of this one's completion, but it cannot be done yet...we need a different setup. More on that later.
