<a id="s3-62"></a>

## 3.62. OPTIONAL: Earth Dragon Isle

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Brace               • Capsule | • Fossicker |  |
| • Upheaval | • Bomber |  |
| ___________________________________________ | • YellowBelly |  |
| • Rockroach |  |  |

This quest could actually have been started back when Serge escaped from the

Temporal Vortex, but it's much easier once you've gotten a Yellow Plate to

keep enemies at bay with. And you do, or should have at this point. Head to

**said destination hi-ho!**

<!-- MIXED -->

Jump down the big hole in the first area and get the [BRACE], which is the only chest in the large shifting sand room. There's a [CAPSULE]/[UPHEAVAL] duo in the large sandboil room as well, but nothing more than chump junk. Use the center sandboil on the lowest part to leap onto the higher ledge and exit southeast. Enter the chamber where the Earth Dragon was and do battle with the sorta-secret optional boss! __________________ ________________ ___________ ___________________________

| BOSS: Criosphinx | INNATE: Yellow | HP: 13000 | Sunglasses |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Earthquake, ThundaStorm |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: @Rainbow Shell / @Denadorite |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: --- |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Earthquake + ThundaStorm + Earthquake + ThundaStorm -> |  |  |  |  |
| Attack ×3 to ThundaStorm to Earthquake to Earthquake + |  |  |  |  |
| ThundaStorm (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| Earthquake ('wrong answer' counter) |  |  |  |  |

Like the final battle in the game, this battle can be fought two ways:

1) You answer his questions and 'win' the battle by riddling his pants off

(not literally). Since his queries ask for a certain color, attacking

him with the color he expects counts as an 'answer.' Don't attack him

**to fill your grids up, though they fill up themselves. Defend until**

the question is asked! Here is how to go about defeating him in this

timid manner:

QUESTION 1: Yellow (Silence is golden, pyrite is fool's gold, etc.) QUESTION 2: Red (See red, red matador rag, stop sign, blushing red, etc.) QUESTION 3: Green (Nature = green, green with envy, green light = go...) QUESTION 4: Blue ('the blues,' blue ribbon, blue-blooded royal...) QUESTION 5: Black (black pirate flag, karate black belt, black plague...) QUESTION 6: White (white-knuckled, white-haired, white heat...)

This lets you "win," but there are no spoils and you don't get anything.

2) Defeat it by your sword! Equip someone with the Yellow Plate, Diminish

the battlefield, equip Sprain-preventing items, and spam Imbecile and

Weaken. It may be a bit hard if you take it on right now, but later it's

a cinch to defeat with this strategy. Try to steal its @Rainbow Shell!

**Killing it by force is the ONLY way to get its Sunglasses accessory,**

of which there is only one in the game. 2500G also received for winning.

**If you have trouble defeating it, try after completing Terra Tower it**

isn't so hard then. This skirmish'll still take quite awhile, though, so

make sure you're prepared going in.
