<a id="s3-66"></a>

## 3.66. OPTIONAL: Marbule

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | CHARACTERS TO INVITE |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Master Hammer | There ain't any! |  |
| • Quill and Papyrus Frame | _______________________________ |  |
| • FullRevival |  |  |

As Vash from the anime Trigun'd say, "This world is made of love and peace!" And now so is Marbule, if you watched Nikki's concert and cleared the crappy monsters from here during the Save Marbule sidequest. The shop is the same as the other dimension's [SH08] but there is no support element shop to be found. If Irenes is with, talk to the witch doctor in the house nearest the entrance twice to get her Lv. 7 Tech 'SirenSong'.

Talk to Toma in the Black Dragon cave to receive a [QUILL AND PAPYRUS FRAME] (do this twice), and talk to the other guy there to get an offer on a Master Hammer! It costs 10000G, but if you buy it, you can make equipment from those dang @Rainbow Shells.

AND, to top it all off, talk to the blue demihuman in the brown jacket (you know, the guy who throws rocks at humans?) to get the [FULLREVIVAL] element, the only one in the game. If he doesn't give it up, re-enter the screen and try again.

Before you can make spectral equipment, make sure Zappa is in your party and talk to the other Zappa in Another World Termina. They'll talk about making the "you-know-what" but won't be able to...unless you have the Master Hammer and a @Rainbow Shell. From now on, the 'Smith Spirit' will be able to forge rainbow equipment! You don't get that Rainbow Axe, though...

Congrats, you can now make rainbow equipment! See [SH09] for what can be made and such. Go have fun, you whippersnappers.
