<a id="s3-7"></a>

## 3.7. Fossil Valley

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Heavy Skull         • Bellflower | • Bubba Dingo |  |
| • Big Egg | • Mama Dingo |  |
| ___________________________________________ | • Dodo |  |
| • Drongo |  |  |

**( ( 1\ [LEGEND]**

```
\ \_______| )
                         \___   __  |                      1 - Heavy Skull
                 _        ___| |  | |                      2 - Bellflower
        EXIT -> | \      |     |  | |                      3 - Big Egg
                 \ \     |3    |  | |       __
                  \ \    |_____|  ) )      /  \
```

**BOSS FIGHT -> \ \**

**) )**

|_| <- ENTER

Some Viper dragoons tell the party to stick to the lowroad because there's an investigation going on on the clifftop. But what fun would it be to get outta here in five seconds? Talk to the soldier guarding the ladder and bluff your way past him by saying you're the exorcists they're lookin' for.

Everyone's scared of some moaning noises up there, which, when Serge draws near, seem to be coming from a clown's skull (o_O). This is actually part of a character named Skelly, who 'joins' the party if you find all his errant pieces. For now, the [HEAVY SKULL] key item's the only part to get by agreeing to help him. There's also a key item [BELLFLOWER] on a cliff, 'guarded' by a weird plant monster that's a non-issue. Just don't use elements on any Dodos that appear with 'em, 'cause it'll send them into a frenzy and make 'em use a hard-hitting tech that can probably OHKO anyone who isn't defending. See that vertebrae ladder by the soldier standing around? Ignore his warnings, climb down there, and get the key item [BIG EGG] that's guarded by a mother Dodo. A character can be hatched out of this later.

<!-- MIXED -->

If one sticks to the lowroad as the soldiers suggested, they'll run into the runts of the Acacia litter...Solt and Peppor! Not on friendly terms, though.

```
__________________________________________/ BATTLE SPOILS (Common -> Rare) |
 | BOSS: Solt   | INNATE: Yellow | HP:  80 | Ivory Vest -> @Copper           |
 | BOSS: Peppor | INNATE: Yellow | HP:  90 | Uplift -> @Copper               |
 |¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
 | ELEMENTS: TurnBlack, LoRes                                                |
 | TO STEAL: ---                                                             |
 | SPECIALS: Pepporbox (Red-innate attack on single target; used by Peppor)  |
 |         : CrossCut (Red-innate dual attack on 1 target; Solt/Peppor only) |
 |         : Summersolt (Blue-innate attack on single target; used by Solt)  |
 | PATTERNS: (Solt  ) TurnBlack -> LoRes ×??                                 |
 |       [2] (Solt  ) LoRes to Summersolt/Attack (×??)                       |
 |           (Peppor) Strengthen -> Pepporbox to CrossCut ×??                |
 |       [2] (Peppor) Pepporbox -> Attack ×??                                |
 |___________________________________________________________________________|
```

Again, the mishaps ensue. The foes haven't changed much from the previous encounter (i.e. romp), besides being able to use their own techs. Pepporbox is used in conjunction with LoRes to have a more powerful attack, and the dual attack 'CrossCut' (red-innate) is used to x-strike one target...too bad it can only be used when both of them is alive. Pay attention to the field effect 'cause any blue characters (Leena) can take serious damage in this battle. Most people write this battle off as child's play, and it is kinda, but don't get sloppy. Summersolt (blue-innate) is used when Peppor is put outta commission, and is expectedly weak like its user. As I wrote the battle patterns, it seems that Peppor only uses attacks once Solt is knocked out, so that's the way to go for an easy victory. Third level-up star gotten after winning.

Congrats! Serge, Kid/Leena, and Poshul should know have their first tech set in a Lv. 3 slot of the element grid. It can't be removed, but why would you wanna do that anyway? Serge, Poshul, and Leena get a purely offensive attack, while Kid gets the ability to steal. Hooray for you!

Termina is right around the corner. Exit onto the world map and go there. Any other location open right now (Viper Manor, Shadow Forest) will get ya thrown back onto the curb, bro.
