<a id="s4-2"></a>

## 4.2. Time Fortress Chronopolis

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • Yellow Brooch       • Recharge [x5] | • Gizmotoid |  |
| • Nostrum             • @Rainbow Shell | • Gyroblade |  |
| • White Brooch        • HellBound | • Aero-Guard |  |
| • CureAll             • Magnify | • Combot |  |
| • Forget-me-not Pot   • Card Key | _______________________________ |  |

<!-- MIXED -->

Just inside the place, try to advance and you'll fight...a BOSS! OMG! Make sure to bring the White Plate for this one. ___________________ _______________ __________ _____________________________

```
| BOSS: PolisPolice | INNATE: White | HP: 3200 | PhysNegate (100%)           |
|¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯ ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|
| ELEMENTS: ---                                                              |
| TO STEAL: Capsule / @Rainbow Shell                                         |
| SPECIALS: MegatonFist (white-innate damage to one character)               |
|           Bazooka (white-innate damage to one character)                   |
| PATTERNS: MegatonFist to Attack (×??)                                      |
|       [2] Bazooka to Attack (×??)                                          |
|____________________________________________________________________________|
```

NOTE: Using stone weapons will auto-critical on machine-type enemies!

This can be an awfully tough battle since it's got great ATK and uses hard- -hitting techs that stem off that stat. The best course of action is to use Diminish pronto to reduce damage to about 175 per tech. Your main 3 party members SHOULD have 400+ HP if you've been collectin after-battle bonuses with some manner of diligence, so OHKO'ing shouldn't be in the picture here (unless you're a black innate, which will be kissed goodbye). Doing surgery with the Mastermune is easy and Serge can still strike for 200+ normally, but keep an eye on that field innate. When it's all white, the boss is at his strongest; but, you can also use the Saints summon to inflict great dmg and heal all your allies, too. In the meantime, Weaken/BatEye/Imbecile to help reduce the load you'll have to place on CureAll or HealAll. Should you have went against my advice in fighting Vita Unus, you may have received a HolyHealing element which will also work very well here. Don't forget that MagNegate is useful anytime you can pull it off! After dealing some damage its fist will explode and cue its '[2]' pattern, which is just as hectic and prepared to send some characters into the afterlife. The White Plate makes this battle not too hard to win given its patterns, but having everyone come out of it alive can be a challenge. Steal that missable Rainbow Shell if you can as well. He will have bodily spasms when in critical HP, although this doesn't seem to surface until he's REALLY low on HP (thanks -> Adam)! 1000G awarded for winning, plus the 39th level-up star! And a crappy element!

And now for a map...

NOTE: Do the Mastermune sidequest [OP19] for a way, way easier time here.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

```
|     _____  |   |   |______
                                   |    |10   | |   |  ______  |
                   _____           |    |_   _| |   | |      | |
                  | BOSS|          |      | |__|¯|__| |  4F  |9|
                  |_   _|          |      |___________|      |_|
                  __| |__          |               _____
                 |       |         |------------. |     |
                 |__   __|         |     _____  | |    8|
                    | |            |    |  7  | | |_   _|  3F
               B2   | |            |    |_   _| |   | |
                    | |            |      | |__|¯|__| |
                    |_|            |      |___________|
                     '-------------|               _____
                                   |------------. | 6   |  2F
                         ELEVATOR  |     _____  | |_   _|     _
                            SHAFT  |    |LV2LK| |   | |______| |
                              ->   |    |_   _| |   |  ______  |
                                   |      | |__|¯|__| |      | |
                                   |      |___________|      |5|
                     _______     __|__                       | |
                    |  SAVE |___|  E  |_                    _| |
                    |        ___       _|------------------|___|
                    |_______|   |     |
                    /           |_| |_| 1F
             Location of Chief    | |___
                                  | |   |
[LEGEND]                          |     |-----------------------.
                                  | |___|    ________________   |
  1 - Yellow Brooch               | | 2 |   | 4              |--'
  2 - Nostrum                     |     |   | 3  WATER ROOM  |
  3 - White Brooch                | |___|   |________________|--.
  4 - CureAll                    _| | '-------------------------'
  5 - Forget-me-not Pot         |   |  _
  6 - Recharge [x5]             | | |_|1|
  7 - @Rainbow Steel            |>| |___|
  8 - HellBound                  ¯|_|
```

**9 - Magnify ' ENTRANCE**

10 - Card Key

After defeating PolisPolice, raid the room of a [YELLOW BROOCH] and exit up the main corridor to the elevator room. The room beyond has a lock, so check the adjacent one's cupboard for a [NOSTRUM] before using a floor panel to get to a water facility. Operate the 'Robo-Sewer-Wash' via a control panel here and move the robot (quit with Triangle) to maneuver through the flow to the opposite bank. There's a [WHITE BROOCH] chest to get and a [CUREALL], too, if you can brave the current. There's infinite retries, so don't worry. Once the robot's across, move it to the glowing red button by a ladder to extend a catwalk; Serge's team can use the one on their side to get to said ladder. This enters the room just past the locked one, with a computer that can open the route easier. Northward to the elevator room!

Here on the ground (1st) floor, there is an elevator a left exit leading to a dock, and a right exit leading to a stairway. The lift has a Lv. 2 lock on so it can't be used yet. Enter the east stairway and claim a superb treasure of a [FORGET-ME-NOT POT]! Take the stairs up to the second floor, now. Past the red-laser gate, exit south to the elevator room and find the doorway to its left. By one of the large control panels in this...cartographer room, the Lv. 2 lock can be released. This lets the elevator be used, and also unlocks the door by the red-laser field. Beyond said door, if Grobyc is along, inspect the coffin to get his Lv. 7 Tech 'StrongArm.'

There are also a safe on the the wall, whose password changes depending on

which of the smaller safe doors are open (x5) next to it. Avoid the hassle

of manually inputting all 100 combinations by shutting all doors and putting

**'00' in as the password works every time! There are five [RECHARGE]s in**

the thing. To leave this floor, use the elevator and go to the one directly

**above 3F.**

[Valerio Cannone writes: I think I've found out something interesting you might want to add to your FAQ. The safe that is on the second floor at Chronopolis actually seems to be using binary coding for its password. Each of the five small doors to its left represent binary digits, with the least significant one being the rightmost one. Closed=0 and Open=1. The initial combination I've found here is 00100 = 4. You can close the safe and try again with another code. 00001 = 1, 11100 = 28 and so on. I hope that will be useful!]

Back in the elevator lobby for this floor, take the left door. Read up on some of the game's info if you want, and score a [@RAINBOW SHELL] chest in an antechamber. The room east of the elevator, get a [HELLBOUND] element being guarded by a Combot. Nothing else to do on this floor, so head up to 4F.

In yet another lobby, take the east door. A scene will play where some weird shadow-people are waiting for their chief. Exit into the hallway connected to here (not the one you came through) to find the stairway with a [MAGNIFY] chest. A ghost here says the chief was probably by the docks...and that is exactly where he is! Return to the 1F docks area and talk to the ghost; he will leave back to 4F. Enter the room left of the elevator this time. Trash a Combot and get a [CARD KEY] from the chest behind it. With this, the B1 floor can be accessed. Make sure to save in the dock area before entering!

<!-- MIXED -->

Past some Combots patrolling the grounds, go up to the retinal scan machine by the locked door. Enter inside the door, watch some delicious scenes, and let's wreck fate itself! Err, FATE itself! _________________ ________________ __________ _____________________________

| BOSS: Fate | INNATE: Black | HP: 5000 | Magic Seal (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Diminish, Gravitonne, FreeFall, GravityBlow |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: HolyHealing / Earring of Light |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: DarkEnergy (black-innate damage to all allies) |  |  |  |  |
| HeatRay (black-innate damage to one ally + Cursed, Darkness, or |  |  |  |  |

| AntiBlack) |  |
| --- | --- |
| PATTERNS: Diminish/Attack to Gravitonne to HeatRay to FreeFall to |  |
| GravityBlow ×2 to DarkEnergy (×??) |  |

First order of business is stealing that HolyHealing element, which restores all HP to your comrades and cures status. This is the first chance you have to get one without sacrificing something way better. Yay @ you! Fate uses Diminish on its first turn (after that it's regular attacks) so counter with Magnify if that ain't up your alley. As for its attack pattern, it's a five- -step pattern that repeats over and over in a countdown fashion. Fate really has no damaging attacks besides DarkEnergy, which suffers from Diminish and a (hopefully) non-black field effect. MagNegate works well before that's used, and the Black Plate ensures that it's impossible to lose. Try to kick out a Saints summon if you can make the field effect white, which is easiest to do after DarkEnergy. It can do 1000+ even with Diminish. As long as its best move doesn't get off under the best circumstances, this battle won't be too hard. 2457G awarded as well as the 40th level-up star.

Watch some awesome FMVs afterwards, and everyone automatically heads back to the S.S. Invincible. So how to get into that floating tower? And how'll Kid wake up from her slumber at Radius' place? Well, let's take care of Kid's plight first...
