<a id="s4-4"></a>

## 4.4. Lucca's Orphanage

<!-- MIXED -->

```
¯| ITEMS / ELEMENTS ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯| ENEMIES ¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯|¯
 |                                           |                               |
 | • @Rainbow Shell      • Nostrum [x10]     | • Lava-boy                    |
 | • Ice Gun             • Diva Dress        |_______________________________|
 | • Stardust Cape       • @Rainbow Shell    |
 | • Nostrum [x10]                           |
 |___________________________________________|
```

Go to Another World Hermit's Hideaway and inspect Kid's comatose self on the bed. Some scenes will play where Masa and Mune (Mastermune's spirits) will try to help her by sending Serge back in time.

As said before, either the ChronoCross or Mastermune can be used to enter the orphanage. However, using the element alone sends Serge back without his allies, making it a lot harder than the alternative. Giving him lots of healing elements and the Red Plate makes things easier, though.

Just a head's up: Serge's team will gradually 'fade' back to reality until he's the only one left to navigate this dungeon. The Red Plate helps, even if the enemies aren't too hard (around 800 HP apiece). If you want items, make sure you give 'affirmative' answers when the kids ask you questions!!

<!-- MIXED -->

**END**

```
____      |   5| |   |--.   _||_     [LEGEND]
                  |  3 |     |_|__| | 6 | |¯| |    |
                  |    |_____| |____|   | | | |    |     1 - @Rainbow Shell
                  |    ______ 2 ____   _| | |_|  __|     2 - Nostrum [x10]
                  |_  |  |___  |  __| |   |_____|        3 - Ice Gun
                    |4|__    | | |7   |                  4 - Diva Dress
                    |____| __| |  ¯¯¯¯                   5 - Stardust Cape
                          |     ¯¯¯|                     6 - @Rainbow Shell
                          |     M 1|                     7 - Nostrum [x10]
                          |        |                     M - Machine that
                          |  ______|                         gives HotShot
                 START -> |_|
```

To start, this is where Kid's Lv. 7 Tech can be obtained. It's missable, if you don't know what to do. There's a large machine by the burning clock. Go up to it and input in this order: L2 -> Triangle -> R2 -> Triangle. If you're close enough, you'll hear 'ding!' sounds; if you do it right, the 'HotShot' tech will be revealed. Check the burning clock to find a kid; tell him it'll be okay to get a [@RAINBOW SHELL]! Under the table in that same room, rescue a kid and learn about Lucca's Ice Gun upstairs.

In the adjacent room, defeat the Lava-boys and fish a kid out from behind the planter. He'll give a [NOSTRUM] to the party. Take the left staircase up to Lucca's lab and get the [ICE GUN] off the wall. A party member disappears at this point. Exit south of this room and get a [DIVA DRESS] before heading back into the two-stair room. The kitchen's straight north. Rob a chest of a [STARDUST CAPE] and fight your way back out. Take the right staircase this time and check under one of the beds after defeating the monster; a kid'll bestow another [@RAINBOW SHELL]! The girl points to a floor panel (obvious to the naked eye) that can be removed to find a secret passage. Before you enter, get the [NOSTRUM] the kid on the balcony'll give. Now, use the secret passage!

<!-- MIXED -->

The second ally will disappear after going through the corridor. Use the Ice

Gun to extinguish the flames and go north into the children's bedroom area.

After some sad scenes, it's back to the real world...with a new-and-improved

**Kid!**

| INVITATION: Kid | INNATE: Red |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| INVITATION: Turnip | INNATE: Green |  |
| After all you've done for her, she comes back into the party! Duh, right? |  |  |
| Also, if you forgot to get the Ice Breath during a sidequest a long while |  |  |
| back, use the Ice Gun on the black patch of ground at Another Hermit's |  |  |
| Hideaway; then, bring Poshul to the counterpart in the other dimension. |  |  |
| Inspect the weird plant thing and she'll dig up your new character...eth. |  |  |

Radius tells her that Luccia wants to see her in the Viper Manor lab, too. Head to said location in Another World with Kid in the party (must do this) and read a letter Luccia's been holding. After, a [@RAINBOW SHELL] falls out of it!

The next part relates to getting to Terra Tower, a.k.a. Sky Dragon Isle, the now-airborne place that's inaccessible. We'll need a flyin' machine, baby! But who's had any experience with that? ......Starky?
