<a id="s4-5"></a>

## 4.5. El Nido Triangle

<!-- MIXED -->

|  | ITEMS / ELEMENTS | ENEMIES |
| --- | --- | --- |
| • @Rainbow Shell      • @Rainbow Shell | • Puffy |  |
| ___________________________________________ | • JellyBlubba |  |
| • SideSteppa |  |  |

Before you can do this, you'll need to have Starky in the party. If he's not invited yet, check out the [OP08] and [OP09] sections on getting him into yer ranks. Once he's in, it's time to rock!

As was suggested when Starky joined, his ship might've been intact in the other dimension...and it is! Up until now, this Triangle has flown under the radar by having nothing there, but it glows white at this time. Make sure to bring someone with a lot of red elements because those are the only kind that will work on the boss!

In the first screen of this two-part dungeon, get a [@RAINBOW SHELL] in a dead-end alley before taking the road downwards. A 2nd [@RAINBOW SHELL]'s to be had in another dead-end alley down here, a south road from ladder. Note that SideSteppas in this area also drop CureAlls.

<!-- MIXED -->

Follow towards the sunken UFO (un-floating object?) to find the boss waiting to eat your brains! __________________ _______________ __________ _____________________________

| BOSS: RoyalJelly | INNATE: Blue | HP: 1657 | Resistance Belt (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ELEMENTS: Numble, IceBlast, Iceberg |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Earring of Light / Sky Djinn Ring |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: Vortex (blue-innate damage on all allies + Flu) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: Attack ×2 to Numble to Attack to Vortex to IceBlast to Attack |  |  |  |  |
| to Iceberg (×??) |  |  |  |  |

**As said before, only red elements will work physical attacks end up being**

ineffectual. Set an Iceberg trap at the beginning as a contingency of sorts,

and try to spring a Salamander summon at the very beginning which may OHKO

it. It's uber-weak to red innates, and even an Inferno -1 can do 300+. It's

not uncommon for someone to X-Strike and finish it in 1-2 turns, either. 900G

awarded for defeating it, plus the 41st level-up star. One of the more easy

fights, yeah?

If Starky's with, the party will be able to gain entrance into the UFO. The tiny spaceman will dig up an anti-gravity device. Back at Chronopolis, he'll attach the special motor to Korcha's crappy boat and make it able to fly! Terra Tower, here we come!

(NOTE: You can get Starky's Lv. 7 tech 'StarStruck' by revisiting the UFO w/ him in the party and searching in that floor hatch again.)
