<a id="s5-1"></a>

## 5.1. Characters

This is where you can read up on the characters and their profiles. Assume a few things while reading:

• All techs inflict damage unless otherwise stated • All techs are aligned with the character's innate color

For further breakdown:

**AGE:** Character's age · **GENDER:** Character's sex · **INNATE:** Character's elemental affilitation · **CAREER:** Character's job/title · **ORIGIN:** Character's location (where s/he is from, or first located) · **HEIGHT:** Character's...height · **WEIGHT:** Character's...weight · **BUILD:** Character's physique · **PREFER:** Character's arm/paw preference · **WEAPON:** Character's equippable weapon types · **EQUIPS:** Character's starting equipment · **INVITE:** Character's method of being in Serge's party · **TECHS:** Character's unique skills

Displayed at the top of each character's profile is how their element grid develops, which is shown courtesy of Gwydion's labors. The grid starts at the left (LV1) and goes right until the end (often LV8). '00' means an initially- -obtained slot, numbers show additions as the star levels are earned.

NOTE: If you find any effects I've missed, please tell me!

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| SERGE /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ][  39  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ][  30  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ][  46  ][  48  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
```

[ 17 ][ 27 ][ 32 ][ 47 ]

**AGE:** 17 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** White · **CAREER:** Silent Protagonist · **ORIGIN:** Arni Village (Home World) · **HEIGHT:** 5'7" · **WEIGHT:** 128 lbs. · **BUILD:** Ordinary · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Swallow · **EQUIPS:** Sea Swallow, Ivory Mail · **INVITE:** You control him the entire game, yo.

Silent protagonist and boy caught between dimensions, he'll have to battle for his right to exist, as well as time-travel to understand just who he is...

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| LYNX /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ][  39  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ][  30  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ][  46  ][  48  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ][  47  ]
```

Just what is this demi-human's story, and why is he so hellbent on causing trouble for Serge and Kid? He's a wily one, and clever as well. Only time'll tell just what he's got up his sleeve...

**AGE:** 17 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Black · **CAREER:** Feline Demi-human · **ORIGIN:** Arni Village [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 6'4" · **WEIGHT:** 176 lbs. · **BUILD:** Solid · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Swallow · **EQUIPS:** Varies (depending on what Serge had at Another World Ft. Dragonia) · **INVITE:** Joins automatically at the Temporal Vortex, if you get my drift...

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| KID /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ][  39  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ][  30  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ][  60  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ][  46  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

A cute girl but fearsome when she has to be, this missy's on a mission for

vindication and revenge. Sure, she gets into a scrap now and then and picks

**fights with Harle, but it ain't no thing nothing ever keeps her down.**

**AGE:** 16 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Red · **CAREER:** Mysterious Traveler · **ORIGIN:** Unknown · **HEIGHT:** 5'5" · **WEIGHT:** 99 lbs. · **BUILD:** Slender · **PREFER:** Ambidextrous · **WEAPON:** Dagger · **EQUIPS:** Ivory Dagger, Ivory Mail · **INVITE:** 1) After mandatory scenes at Cape Howl [Another World]

2) In Termina [Another World] after talking with statue polisher 3) In Guldove, if you choose to help find a cure for her poison (can do as soon as poison is obtained). 4) In Guldove, if you choose not to help her and return to the town before Fort Dragonia events [Another World] 5) At Hermit's Hideaway after Chronopolis events, after exploring her 'past' with the Mastermune/Chrono Cross key item. This is missable in that you can put it off until the end of the game, thus never getting her in the party.

To obtain the 'HotShot' tech, finish the events at Chronopolis. Kid will be at Hermit's Hideaway [Another World] at this point, but is unconscious. Use the Chrono Cross -OR- Mastermune to enter her past. In the first room of this place will be a large machine by a burning clock. Pressing buttons near its front gives off a 'ding' sound. Press L2, Triangle, R2, and Triangle to get it.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| GUILE /

**' '**

```
[  78  ]
                                                   [  69  ][  72  ]
                                           [  60  ][  63  ][  66  ]
                                   [  21  ][  34  ][  46  ][  48  ]
   [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ][  37  ]
                   [  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
                           [  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  55  ]
                                                           [  75  ]
```

Often thought to be Magus (from Chrono Trigger fame) in disguise, it's almost the singular reason why he gets so much attention. In reality, he's but an up-and-coming magician who happens to have decent MGC and some nifty techs to aid Serge and crew. His element grid is pretty crappy early on, but as time marches on, it becomes so front-loaded (err, back-loaded) that it's got the most Lv8 slots of anyone.

**AGE:** 26 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Black · **CAREER:** Masked Magician · **ORIGIN:** Zenan Mainland [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 6'2" · **WEIGHT:** 154 lbs. · **BUILD:** Tall & Slender · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Rod · **EQUIPS:** Porcelain Rod, Ivory Mail · **INVITE:** When arriving in Termina [Another World] for the first time, watch a

scene with the statue polisher. Afterwards, find Korcha at the bridge east of there before finding him a 2nd time down by the shrines. He agrees to take you to the destination (Viper Manor Bluffs) but needs a guide. Guile's at the Termina Bar and will join up without too much of a hassle. Nikki and Pierre CANNOT join if Guile does, however.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| NORRIS /

**' '**

```
[  22  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

Leader of Porre's Black Wind soldiers who kinda infiltrate El Nido and take it over, he's still respectful at heart and can't stand some of his allies' wrongdoings. Not a bad chap at all.

**AGE:** 26 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Yellow · **CAREER:** 'Black Wind' Leader · **ORIGIN:** Porre, Zenan [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'10" · **WEIGHT:** 137 lbs. · **BUILD:** Average · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Gun · **EQUIPS:** Ferrous Gun, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** Joins automatically at Viper Manor [Home World]

To find 'TopShot,' take Norris to meet his counterpart in Another World Viper Manor's parlor room (ground floor, left hallway). He'll receive the technique there. The earliest this can be done is after infiltrating the manor to save Riddel. As long as Porre controls Viper Manor, you'll need Norris in the main lineup to enter, remember.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| NIKKI /

**' '**

```
[  35  ]
       [  26  ][  31  ]
       [  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ][  39  ][  44  ][  48  ]
       [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
       [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Nikki's the girly-in-appearance guitar player for the 'Magical Dreamers' troupe, and has seemingly everyone in the world going ga-ga over him. Girls fall at his feet, but in reality, he's searching for some family members... and stuff. He has the habit of saying "Rockin'" like it's still in style. :p

**AGE:** 19 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Blue · **CAREER:** Rockin' Bard Superstar · **ORIGIN:** S.S. Zelbess [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 6' · **WEIGHT:** 115 lbs. · **BUILD:** Thin · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Pick · **INVITE:** After going through Fossil Valley [Another World], watch the scene

in Termina regarding the statue polisher. After this, you'll need a guide to infiltrate Viper Manor. Go down to the docks and onto the large green ship. Talk to Nikki's manager and his co-star Miki will want you to help find him in Shadow Forest. Go there and head inside; three screens in, save him from some Cassowaries and he'll join in a cave there.

To pick up this rad last tech, take Nikki to meet his counterpart onboard the Magical Dreamers boat in Home World. It'll be docked by the S.S. Zelbess, and to get to the destination, climb the mast to the cable transfer rig. Ride it to the ship and kick out some jams with Nikki! \m/

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| VIPER /

**' '**

```
[  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
       [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

The great Lord of El Nido and loved by most, he runs the Acacia Dragoons and has a large manor near Termina. He may seem slightly devious, but he's really a family man who loves his daughter Riddel very much.

**AGE:** 57 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Yellow · **CAREER:** Lord of El Nido · **ORIGIN:** El Nido [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 6'7" (!) · **WEIGHT:** 216 lbs. · **BUILD:** Solid · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Sword + Viper's Venom (unique sword) · **EQUIPS:** Silver Sword, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** Joins automatically after events at Porre-controlled Viper Manor [AW]

To find 'FlagBearer,' visit the secret room in Home World Termina's bar. It's normally locked, but if Viper is in the party, the woman allows everyone to come behind the counter. Observe the red tapestry along the wall to find the tech and a Dragoon's Glory. NOTE: There is a glitch related to this tech! If you return to this room and inspect the bare wall, you can get ANOTHER tech and Dragoon's Glory. This can be repeated as many times as you want, making Viper one of the best characters in the game because of it. Just remember he can only carry three FlagBearers tops, they ARE permanent, and filling all slots with them means he can't use any summon traps. They'll disappear on a NG+ however, if you need a do-over.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| RIDDEL /

**' '**

```
[  35  ][  43  ]
       [  26  ][  31  ][  34  ][  41  ][  46  ][  50  ]
       [  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ][  39  ][  44  ][  48  ][  51  ]
       [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
       [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

The darling daughter of Lord Viper, she was also engaged to the late Acacia Deva, Dario. She grew up with Karsh, Glenn, and Dario, and her mood's been a bit more somber since her fiance died. However, she's loved by all who know her regardless of what's happened.

**AGE:** 24 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** White · **CAREER:** Lady of Viper Manor · **ORIGIN:** El Nido [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'7" · **WEIGHT:** 104 lbs. · **BUILD:** Slender · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Rod · **EQUIPS:** Mythril Rod, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** After events at Porre-controlled Viper Manor [AW], talk to her at

Hermit's Hideaway and she'll join.

'SnakeFangs' is obtained by completing the Mastermune sidequest, which in turn, is started by finishing Karsh's Isle of the Damned sidequest. Defeat the boss at Forbidden Isle and afterwards, Riddel will receive her technique.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| KARSH /

**' '**

```
[  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ]
       [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
       [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Fairly brash and eager, Karsh operates under Viper's command. He proves to be a thorn in Serge's side a bit, but after a turn of events, Karsh and his Diva peers all join. He's got a crush on Riddel...maybe...

**AGE:** 27 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Green · **CAREER:** One of the 4 Devas · **ORIGIN:** El Nido [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'11" · **WEIGHT:** 159 lbs. · **BUILD:** Solid · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Axe · **EQUIPS:** Silver Axe, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** 1) Pick Karsh to accompany you to Porre-controlled Viper Manor [AW]

2) Joins automatically at S.S. Invincible if he wasn't chosen at #1

Karsh's last tech 'Axiomatic' is received after completing a sidequest at Isle of the Damned [Another World], and can be started as soon as he's in the party. And he has to be in the party to proceed to the boss! This quest has to be done before starting the one that allows Riddel to get her last tech, also.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| ZOAH /

**' '**

```
[  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Incredibly strong but has trouble controlling his voice modulation, it seems,

Zoah's earned his place as one of Viper's Divas. He's very reliable in battle

**but just doesn't seem to have any inspirations/aspirations worth noting.**

**AGE:** 28 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Yellow · **CAREER:** One of the 4 Divas · **ORIGIN:** El Nido [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 6'3" · **WEIGHT:** 203 lbs. · **BUILD:** Mammoth · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Mythril Glove, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** 1) Pick Zoah to accompany you to Porre-controlled Viper Manor [AW]

2) Joins automatically at S.S. Invincible if he wasn't picked for #1

'Toss&Spike' is found in Zoah's room in Another World Viper Manor. Only he's able to open it, meaning it cannot be obtained until he first joins during the raid on Porre-controlled Viper Manor. Make him the party leader and it'll open up. It's a shame all his techs are single-target...

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| MARCY /

**' '**

```
[  35  ]
     [  26  ][  31  ]
     [  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ][  39  ][  44  ][  48  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Quite close to the vapid teenage girl archetype, she's sort of a brat and not very...personable to most people. She accumulates an ever-lasting hate for Serge after he wallops her in battle, but eventually sees his good side and joins up with the rest of her Diva crew.

**AGE:** 9 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Blue · **CAREER:** 'Diva' of the 4 Devas · **ORIGIN:** Zenan Mainland [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 4'9" · **WEIGHT:** 84 lbs. · **BUILD:** Smallish · **PREFER:** Left-handed · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Mythril Glove, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** Joins automatically after events at Porre-controlled Viper Manor in

Another World.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| KORCHA /

**' '**

```
[  22  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

A worker from Guldove who runs a ferrying business in Termina, Korcha's quick to stand up for what (he thinks) is right, and has an uber-crush on Kid! He's a pretty nice guy, although his accent's annoying.

**AGE:** 16 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Blue · **CAREER:** Fisherman & Ferryman · **ORIGIN:** Guldove [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'6" · **WEIGHT:** 123 lbs. · **BUILD:** Thin · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Lure · **EQUIPS:** Bronze Lure, Bronze Mail · **INVITE:** After events at Viper Manor [Another World], everyone ends up back in · **NOTE:** After Kid has been saved and Korcha ferries everyone to

Guldove. When asked if he's going to help Kid, give an affirmative reply and after he takes everyone back to Termina, he can join up at Termina _another_ time, the option to decline his company is given. If you choose not to keep him along, you can re-invite him at Guldove in the residential tower.]

To find 'BigCatch,' go to Another World Termina's bridge where the element trader and a covered cage is. With Korcha in the party, talk to the cage to hear some inspiring words about the mermaid inside escaping. Re-enter, talk to the mermaid tank again to find out "there's no one inside...". Down by the shrines, talk to the escapee merwoman and get the tech. [NOTE: You can't get this until finishing Sea of Eden events.] Looks like he finally caught something bigger than smallfry!

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| LUCCIA /

**' '**

```
[  35  ]
     [  26  ][  31  ]
     [  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ][  39  ][  44  ][  48  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

The brainy broad who created NeoFio, Luccia often gets ignored story-wise but has a connection to a certain lead character. She's an easy-to-get black type character, but doesn't really excel at any field. Still, her Mix&Match tech is one of the few ways to deliberately inflict status abnormalities.

**AGE:** 28 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Black · **CAREER:** Scientific Genius · **ORIGIN:** Zenan Mainland [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'9" · **WEIGHT:** 97 lbs. · **BUILD:** Thin · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Shot · **EQUIPS:** Bronze Shot, Bronze Mail · **INVITE:** After escaping Viper Manor [Another World] and seeing the mandatory

scenes in Guldove, return to the manor's rooftop terrace. She'll go back to the lab downstairs; follow her and she'll join down there.

To find Luccia's last tech, finish the events at Fort Dragonia [Home World] and get her back into the party. Enter the Viper Manor [Another World] sewer system by jumping through the kitchen's floor grate. By the chest where a Magic Seal was, inspect the blue blob with her in the party to learn the Lv. 7 Tech.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| POSHUL /

**' '**

```
[  19  ][  20  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ]
       [  17  ]
```

Arni Village's twin-tailed dog of lovable proportions, Poshul tags along with Serge in two different scenarios. No matter which world she's from, this dog is a fluffy, cuddly pooch with a cute accent. When she says "thpontaneouthry combuthted," it's love at first sight. This author's favorite character, if you wanted to know. <3 <3 <3 <3 Great STR/HP but isn't meant for using a lot of elements (poor MGC).

**AGE:** Unknown · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Yellow · **CAREER:** The 'Wonder Dog' ??? · **ORIGIN:** Arni Village [Home/Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 3'8" · **WEIGHT:** 26 lbs. · **BUILD:** Roly-poly · **PREFER:** Dominant paw unknown · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Bone Glove, Ivory Mail · **INVITE:** 1) In the Home World, give Poshul the Heckran Bone found at the cafe

2) At Another World Cape Howl, do not invite Kid; Poshul'll accompany Leena in joining. She only joins with Leena if you did not get her using the Heckran Bone method earlier.

To find 'Unleashed,' bring Poshul to Home World Arni Village and talk to

**Leena she'll bestow this pooch's last tech.**

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| RAZZLY /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

This cute faerie is caught in quite a predicament when Serge rescues her from a carnivorous Pentapus. Seems she caught a breeze to the mainland from one of the isles nearby, and needs some help getting home...enter the protagonist!

**AGE:** Unknown · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Green · **CAREER:** A Forest Fairy · **ORIGIN:** Water Dragon Isle [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 3'7" · **WEIGHT:** 11 lbs. · **BUILD:** Tiny · **PREFER:** Dominant arm unknown · **WEAPON:** Rod + Floral Rod (unique weapon) · **EQUIPS:** Brass Rod, Bronze Mail · **INVITE:** When the party first reaches Guldove, Korcha will ask Serge if he

will help save Kid. Choose the affirmative and, a short while later, the destination will be the Home World Hydra Marshes. Get the Beeba Flute, blow it in a large circular-shaped dead end, kill a Wingapede to crack the floor. Step on the floor to fall into a pit where a Pentapus has Razzly hostage. Rescue her, defeat Madam Pentapus, and the rest is history! You must do this before taking on the Hydra, or she'll end up as the monster's breakfast...

To get 'RazFlower,' you'll have to do some specific steps (there's a reason this is called annoying to get). First off, when Korcha asks Serge if he's going to save Kid, answer the affirmative. Eventually, one'll have to search for Hydra Humour in the Home World Hydra Marshes. Rescue Razzly from her captor but DO NOT include her in the boss battle with the Hydra (or this will screw up the next part). Later on, after events aboard the S.S. Invincible, return to Water Dragon Isle and see that it's overrun by dwarvenkind. Razzly _SHOULD_ be in the current party lineup for these events. Waste enough time so that at the very bottom of the falls, the fairy Rosetta ends up perishing. If all this is done, return to Home World Water Dragon Isle after finishing up the Chronopolis events. The place will be revitalized via Rosetta's wish, and if Razzly's with, she'll obtain the [FLORAL ROD] as well as the final tech. (Only Razzly can equip the Floral Rod, by the way. If you don't get this tech, you can't do the triple tech that needs it!!!)

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| ZAPPA /

**' '**

```
[  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

'Obstinate' is right! A former Acacia Dragoon who fought with both Radius and Garai, he's now the main equipment supplier for Viper's crew. Not much more to say besides he is _NECESSARY_ to create spectral (rainbow) equipment.

**AGE:** 52 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Red · **CAREER:** Obstinate Blacksmith · **ORIGIN:** Zenan Mainland [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'8" · **WEIGHT:** 181 lbs. · **BUILD:** Solid · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Hammer, Axe · **EQUIPS:** Great Hammer, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** Simply talk to him in Home World Termina's smithy to get the option

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| ORCHA /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ][  30  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ]
       [  17  ]
```

One "hell" of a cook at Viper Manor, he eventually gets fed quadffid seeds by the Porre military and turned into Hell's Cook, a vicious interrogatin' machine. Serge rescues him so he joins to make reparations.

**AGE:** 44 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Red · **CAREER:** Fiery Cook · **ORIGIN:** Guldove [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'7" · **WEIGHT:** 203 lbs. · **BUILD:** Chubby · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Utensils · **EQUIPS:** Frypan Ag47, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** Joins automatically at Porre-controlled Viper Manor in Another World,

after a few events...

To get 'DinnerGuest,' bring Orcha to meet his brother in Home World Arni Village's cafe. After some funny events (that chopping animation is funnay!) the tech's received as a...recipe swap.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| RADIUS /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ][  39  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ][  30  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ][  46  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ]
```

Radius is a former compadre of Garai, and retired from the Acacia Dragoons after years of tenure. He's quite friendly and his demeanor belies a soldier who's seen much in his lifetime. This chief also hides a painful secret that he's been living with for many years...

**AGE:** 62 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Green · **CAREER:** Arni Village Chief · **ORIGIN:** Zenan Mainland [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'8" · **WEIGHT:** 119 lbs. · **BUILD:** Thin · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Staff · **EQUIPS:** Silver Staff, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** After clearing the Dimensional Vortex section, see the Home World

Arni Village events and he'll join automatically at the end

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| FARGO /

**' '**

```
[  19  ][  20  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ]
       [  17  ]
```

Fargo is the commander of a bunch of brigands aboard the S.S. Invincible in

'Another World,' and a world-class scammer running the S.S. Zelbess luxury

cruise ship in the Home World. He's not too fond of Lynx, and ends up joining

Serge later on as a way to repay him for saving his own life, while also sure

to make sure Viper's ready for the duel. He's a decent blue-innate character,

who not only can use CureAll elements but is integral for stealing the Plate

armor off the Dragons. Oh, and you need him for the 'Save Marbule!' sidequest

**also he's that awesome. Hoo-hah!**

**AGE:** 40 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Blue · **CAREER:** Pirate Captain · **ORIGIN:** Unknown [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 6'0" · **WEIGHT:** 163 lbs. · **BUILD:** Macho · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Sword · **EQUIPS:** Silver Sword, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** Joins automatically after mandatory events at Porre-controlled

Viper Manor (Another World) and subsequent events at Hermit's Hideaway in same dimension.

To get 'Invincible,' after Fargo joins, put him in the party and take a visit to the S.S. Zelbess (Another World). Talk to the 'other' Fargo aboard the luxury ship and after some events, the tech will be received. NOTE: If you did not visit Nikki after defeating the janitor Sage before entering the Dead Sea, you _cannot_ get this. Fargo's tech is part of the 'Save Marbule!' sidequest and there's a whole bunch of things that can be missed if it's not done.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| MACHA /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

Macha is Korcha's mother from Guldove, and helps the party out when her "brat" son refuses (if you didn't choose to help Kid). She's a nice lady but isn't afraid to stop someone from jive-talkin' if she hears it. Her techs, not too much of a surprise, involve menial 'womanly' duties.

**AGE:** 38 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Red · **CAREER:** Gutsy Mother of 2 · **ORIGIN:** Guldove [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'6" · **WEIGHT:** 150 lbs. · **BUILD:** Stout · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Utensils · **EQUIPS:** Besom Cu29, Bronze Mail · **INVITE:** At the clinic in Guldove [Another World], tell Korcha you don't know

what to do for Kid (x2) until he storms off. Talk to him again in the residential tower and ask to borrow his boat. Macha will enter and borrow it from him, and later ferry everyone to Termina. After seeing Glenn there and inviting him, she'll ask if you want her to come with.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| GLENN /

**' '**

```
[  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Glenn is the younger brother of Dario, a late member of Viper's 4 Devas. He is very righteous and is willing to defy orders to pursue the truth, as his friend Riddel asked him to keep the unclouded truth in sight. Not only is he the first character to join that can use a double-tech with Serge, but he's the only ally in the game who can equip the holy sword Einlanzer. Definitely a great character to get in the party (and, no, he's not Frog!)

**AGE:** 20 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Green · **CAREER:** Noble Knight · **ORIGIN:** Termina [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'9" · **WEIGHT:** 141 lbs. · **BUILD:** Average · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Sword + Einlanzer · **EQUIPS:** Bronze Sword, Bronze Mail · **INVITE:** At the clinic in Guldove [Another World], tell Korcha you don't know

what to do about Kid's hydra poison until he walks off. Later, after Macha rows everyone to port in Termina, witness a scene involving Glenn by the entrance. Go back and talk with Macha and Glenn will approach, asking if he can accompany everyone to Fort Dragonia. It's impossible to refuse his joining at this point; Macha makes him come with even if Serge doesn't want it!

Glenn's techs are fairly standard, although 'SonicSword' changes its descrip when he learns to dual-wield the Einlanzers. The damage seems to increase a bit because he'll shoot a second green stream of energy. Groovy!

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| LEENA /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

Sweet country gal, huh? She's obviously got a crush on Serge, but doesn't get a chance to act due to some...unforseen events. She's a little bossy but is a nice girlie at heart. Also follows trends, it seems...

**AGE:** 16 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Blue · **CAREER:** Sweet Country Gal · **ORIGIN:** Arni Village [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'5" · **WEIGHT:** 93 lbs. · **BUILD:** Ordinary · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Cooking utensils · **EQUIPS:** Spatula Ca20, Ivory Mail · **INVITE:** After events at Another World Cape Howl, decline Kid's offer to team

up. The next morning, Leena will join. Poshul will join here as well, if she wasn't invited before.

Our darling's LV7 tech can be obtained later, but only if Serge said all the right things to her earlier in the game. (Two out of three 'right' responses are needed at minimum. Thanks to Capefeather and Zach Lapo for reverifying the responses.) When meeting with her at Opassa Beach after Lizard Rock events, agree that "you'll remember the day" and, later on, that "we'll never forget this day!". After reaching Another World Arni, say to Leena "I'm Serge!!!". Continue the game until the team recruited by Serge is usable once again, and return to the Home World Arni hut where Poshul lives. Talk with the old woman and receive the technique.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| MIKI /

**' '**

```
[  22  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

Hey Miki, you're so fine you blow my mind, hey Miki! She's in the Magical Dreamers troupe along with Nikki, and is sorta contemplative/moody a lot of the time. She's got a thing for said friend, who happens to be even more girly than her. They've got a double tech together. :D

**AGE:** 19 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Red · **CAREER:** Dancer Extraordinaire · **ORIGIN:** S.S. Zelbess [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'7" · **WEIGHT:** 95 lbs. · **BUILD:** Slender · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Gloves

EQUIPS: Granite Glove, Stone Mail INVITE: After defeating the Sage of Marbule aboard the Zelbess, talk to Nikki on his ship and agree to help clear Marbule of its dream-ghosts. When you've gotten past the Tower of Geddon events, take Fargo to meet his counterpart aboard the Zelbess to start the second part of the 'Save Marbule' sidequest. Defeat all dream-enemies (Lagoonates) to finish up the prerequisites. Talk to Miki in the Zelbess' dining room and she'll be happy to join.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| HARLE /

**' '**

```
[  35  ][  43  ]
     [  26  ][  31  ][  34  ][  41  ][  46  ][  50  ]
     [  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ][  39  ][  44  ][  48  ][  51  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Harle's a French-speakin', funny-clothes-wearin', tool of destruction wrapped up in a cute little package. She tags along with Lynx most of the time, and after events at Ft. Dragonia, accompanies 'Serge' as well. She doesn't talk about herself and seems to have no relatives/friends in the region... Hmm...

**AGE:** 18 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Black · **CAREER:** Enigmatic Jester · **ORIGIN:** Unknown · **HEIGHT:** Unknown · **WEIGHT:** Unknown · **BUILD:** Unknown · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Shot · **EQUIPS:** Silver Shot, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** Joins automatically during events at Dimensional Vortex

A note about Harle. During the course of the game, she willingly leaves the party for the rest of the game. This can cause some strife if you want to use her on a NG+, because she won't be carried over. However, all's not lost! To transfer her over (using the ChronoCross method at Temporal Vortex), you MUST beat the final boss while she's still in the party. This can only be done on a NG+, meaning she can't be transferred over until the THIRD playthrough. It sucks for Harle fans, but that's how it goes.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| JANICE /

**' '**

```
[  35  ]
     [  26  ][  31  ]
     [  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ][  39  ][  44  ][  48  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

This fiesty bunny-girl works at the Grand Slam aboard the S.S. Zelbess and is a fierce competitor. Serge has to beat her three times in a row to get her in his party, but she's alright. Did I mention she uses a carrot to attack enemies? o_O

**AGE:** 22 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Red · **CAREER:** Bunny-Girl Trainer · **ORIGIN:** S.S. Zelbess [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'7" · **WEIGHT:** 104 lbs. · **BUILD:** Plumpish · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Carrot (LOL) · **EQUIPS:** Carrot, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** Defeat her three times in the Grand Slam event aboard the Zelbess

To get her final tech, bring Janice to the Bend of Time and talk to the blob- -thing standing by the lamppost.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| DRAGGY /

**' '**

```
[  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

**They ain't-a kiddin' Draggy's sure a cute baby dragon. And he's also a**

cute baby fire-breather that can wreak destruction. Adorable, folks! Kinda

heavy, though...

**AGE:** 0 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Red · **CAREER:** Cute Baby Dragon · **ORIGIN:** Fossil Valley [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 2'2" · **WEIGHT:** 265 lbs. · **BUILD:** Tiny · **PREFER:** Front-left-clawed · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Iron Glove, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** At Another Fossil Valley, raid a Dodo's nest for a 'Big Egg' key

item. Later on, after getting a boat in Home World Termina, sail to Ft. Dragonia and get the elevator functioning again. Below, set the egg in the middle incubator to hatch this li'l harrier.

To find 'BigBreath,' take Draggy to Another World Fossil Valley and climb the ladder to where the large dragon skeleton is. A scene between mother and son will take place, and the tech's bestowed on the tike.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| STARKY /

**' '**

```
[  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Errant spaceman who's crashed into the El Nido Triangle, Starky's had to pull some crazy stunts to collect the pieces of the wreckage, which've turned into Star Fragments. When he tries to pull a fast one on Serge's crew, they wallop him good; they later join up to get him home once again. Gamewise, he's the first white-innate that can be claimed after the Dimensional Vortex, making him a great source of MagNegate-ing!

**AGE:** Unknown · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** White · **CAREER:** A Stray 'Gray' · **ORIGIN:** Another Planet · **HEIGHT:** 2'11" · **WEIGHT:** 11 lbs. · **BUILD:** Alien · **PREFER:** Ambidextrous · **WEAPON:** Gun · **EQUIPS:** Shockwave Gun, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** After getting Norris' boat in the Home World, ride to the El Nido

Triangle and get a Star Fragment down below. After, visit Sky Dragon Isle and try to open a chest at the very top; MegaStarky will attack you. Defeat him and a bruised Starky'll join up w/ the protagonist.

To get his last tech, complete the Sea of Eden events and get either the Mastermune/Chrono Cross. Use one of these items at Another Hermit's Hideaway to navigate Kid's past and kick her out of the comatose funk she's been in. Head to the El Nido Triangle in the same dimension and bring Starky along. Defeat RoyalJelly to gain access to the spaceman's UFO, which in turn makes everyone automatically head to Chronopolis. At this point, return to the UFO and search it for the tech.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| SPRIGG /

**' '**

```
[  11  ][  18  ]
       [  15  ][  29  ]
```

Sprigg is an old woman who had been trapped in the Dimensional Vortex. When Lynx comes along, she helps him escape while she tags along. She's the only character in the game with one tech, but it's quite useful... One thing that is cool is when she changes Dopplegangs, all status effects are removed! Her element grid is god-awful, though... (first column = Lv5)

**AGE:** 224 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Green · **CAREER:** Lovable Old Lady · **ORIGIN:** Dimensional Vortex · **HEIGHT:** 4'4" · **WEIGHT:** 86 lbs. · **BUILD:** Dwarfish · **PREFER:** Left-handed · **WEAPON:** Staff · **EQUIPS:** Silver Staff, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** When Lynx first reaches the Dimensional Vortex, Sprigg will be hiding

in her house. Use a branch nearby to knock a piece of food onto the ground and enter her house while she forages. Spend the night to get her in the party on the morn.

**TECHS Dopplegang - "Transform yourself into a previously met foe"**

- Target: Self

- Learns: Already learned when invited

- Effect: Sprigg can become any of the default monsters

in her repertoire, as well as any she's killed

personally. Any monster defeated by a character

who has a Forget-me-not Pot equipped will also

be fair game.

A word on Dopplegang, Sprigg's Lv. 5 tech. Once she transforms into one of the monsters in her list, she can use Dopplegang to return to her normal, crappy form or another enemy. This tech can be used as many times as she wants, unlike every other one. What a special granny, huh? Another cool thing is that if your transformation runs out of good skills, use Dopplegang to turn back into it and all elements will be renewed!

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| MOJO /

**' '**

```
[  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Mojo is a disciple of love and peace, even though he's made out of thatched straw and some candles. He's a little weird, but also easily obtained and a black-innate character. Just don't bump into him or you may find yourself skewered by his gigantic nail...

**AGE:** Unknown · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Black · **CAREER:** Cursed Voodoo Doll · **ORIGIN:** Far East · **HEIGHT:** 6'3" · **WEIGHT:** 20 lbs. · **BUILD:** Waistless · **PREFER:** Dominant arm unknown · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Bone Glove, Ivory Mail · **INVITE:** At Home World Arni Village, talk to the fisherman in a house basement

to get a Shark Tooth key item. After Another World Cape Howl events, talk to the fisherman in the same house's basement and show him the Shark Tooth. As you try to leave, Mojo'll join up.

To get HoodooGuroo, take Mojo to meet the fisherman in Home World Arni (this is mandatory) to learn the fisherman's been hearing voices about praying to "Lasery, Aurey, and Lickey." For the unaware, those are the names of the fisherman's idols in the Another World Arni house. Pray to the cat statues in that order with Mojo in the party to get the tech.

If you get a message your "prayers were not heard," make sure Mojo leads the party when you inspect the idols. When you get this tech, his name changes to 'Mojoy'! This can be done after finishing events in Chronopolis on the second disc.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| TURNIP /

**' '**

```
[  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Turnip is...a vegetable bred with a swordsman bred with a duck. Whatever he

is, he's got a funny look to him. A soldier in Viper Manor dreams he's this

**guy, while Turnip dreams he's the soldier kinda odd...**

AGE   : 3

GENDER: Male

INNATE: Green

CAREER: A Total Vegetable

ORIGIN: Hermit's Hideaway [Home World]

HEIGHT: 4'4"

WEIGHT: 62 lbs.

BUILD : Round

PREFER: Right-rhizomed

WEAPON: Sword

EQUIPS: Steel Sword, Iron Mail

INVITE: Use the Ice Breath/Ice Gun at Another World Hermit's Hideaway to

cool the burnt, black patch of ground. This allows vegetation to

grow again. Take Poshul to the other dimension's version of this

**place and make her dig up the plant growing there it's Turnip!**

To get 'VegOut,' bring Turnip and NeoFio to the Another World Viper Manor rooftop terrace. Inspect the pond where NeoFio usually is and Turnip will want to jump in. When he does, he changes color (LOL?) and somehow learns a third tech. Must be Luccia's special fertilizer...

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| NEOFIO /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

NeoFio is Luccia's creation. It seemed to just be a dumb plant until Serge

**gave it a Life Sparkle that's when it transformed into a hideous...cute**

little girl-plant...? Well, it's still got slimy tentacles, so I don't know

how fun hanging out with her'd be...

**AGE:** 5 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Green · **CAREER:** A 'Flower Child' · **ORIGIN:** Viper Manor [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 4'00" · **WEIGHT:** 44 lbs. · **BUILD:** Undefinable · **PREFER:** Omnidextrous · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Bronze Glove, Bronze Mail · **INVITE:** In Another World Hydra Marshes, go to where the Hydra would normally

be found and get the 'Life Sparkle' key item. Bring it to Viper Manor in that same dimension and use it on Luccia's plant, up on the roof's terrace. She'll join at that time.

To get her last tech, bring NeoFio to Home World Sky Dragon Isle. Have her chase the red blob trying to eat a butterfly and talk to it. Re-enter the screen to find the butterfly's been eaten. Talk to the blob and push it until it relents and the bug goes free. The thankful butterfly bestows the tech at this time.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| GRECO /

**' '**

```
[  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Greco is a spiritual person who's licensed to perform exorcisms. He hangs by the Termina shrines and recently lost his son... I guess there's not much need for psychic ex-wrestlers. o_O

**AGE:** 33 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Red · **CAREER:** Psychic Ex-Wrestler · **ORIGIN:** Zenan Mainland [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 6'7" · **WEIGHT:** 271 lbs. · **BUILD:** Heavy Weight · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Bronze Glove, Bronze Mail · **INVITE:** After the first events in Guldove, Greco can join afterwards. Just

visit him down by the shrines and talk to him in his house.

Greco's got one of the simpler methods for attaining his last tech. Simply talk go to Home World Termina and talk to the person living in the house by there. There'll be some scenes about his son and the tech'll be bestowed onto him! Can you smell...what the Greco's cookin'? :p

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| SKELLY /

**' '**

```
[  22  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ][  37  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

A fun-lovin' clown who just happens to lack an epidermis, Skelly woke up once without most of his body parts. Well, to spit in the face of the sadist who did such a thing, Skelly asked Serge to help assemble his body parts so that he could once again move around like a normal person.

**AGE:** 32 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Black · **CAREER:** Skeleton Clown · **ORIGIN:** Zenan Mainland [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 6'2" · **WEIGHT:** 51 lbs. · **BUILD:** Boney · **PREFER:** Left-handed · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Iron Glove, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** Collect _ALL_ 6 of Skelly's body parts (all in Another World) at:

• Heavy Skull - Fossil Valley - Climb the ladder and talk to get it • Angry Scapula - Shadow Forest - Inside notebook in Aroma Pouch cave • Pelvic Bone - Guldove - Element trader will give it to Serge's team • Good Backbone - Hydra Marshes - Found in a cave in eastern portion • Sturdy Ribs - Water Dragon Isle - Talk to guy nearest the savepoint • Mixed Bones - Isle of the Damned - 1st screen, in the NW cavern

Once reassembled, Skelly leaves to visit his grandmother in Termina (Another World) Go there and talk to him and he'll end up joining.

To get his last tech 'OnARoll,' talk to the bartender in Home World Termina. She'll cook him a special dish and he'll learn the tech after reminiscing a bit. [NOTE: You can only do this after regaining Serge's form at Home World Fort Dragonia. However, Skelly can be obtained as either Lynx or Serge.]

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| FUNGUY /

**' '**

```
[  19  ][  20  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ]
       [  17  ]
```

Funguy likes 'shrooms...mostly because he's half mushroom! A man, who happens to be the element girl Lisa's father, ate a rare myconoid and turned into one by accident. He blames the accident on Serge and comes along hoping the Frozn Flame can help him. What a doofus!

**AGE:** Unknown · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Yellow · **CAREER:** Mushroom Man · **ORIGIN:** Termina [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 6'0" · **WEIGHT:** 66 lbs. · **BUILD:** Light · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Axe, Hammer · **EQUIPS:** Iron Axe, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** After Serge becomes Lynx, go through Shadow Forest to the part where

there's a kid looking into a hole by a Wraith. Defeat said enemy and inspect the hole to receive a rare 'Mushroom.' At the creek cave two screens back, trade it to the camper in exchange for a chest; he'll change into Funguy!

To get 'Myconoids,' take Funguy to the cave where he transformed (Home World) and inspect the mushroom there. When prompted, choose 'Eat it' to learn the mushroom is Funguy's...son. He gets the Lv. 7 tech at this time...

Recruiting Funguy can be a bit vexing for some people, and this is dependent on whether or not you took the Shadow Forest path in Another World. If the rock was used to stuff up a hole in the watery area, the hole in Home World will be open; if you didn't take the Nikki route, the hole will be closed. So to recruit Funguy, you'll either have to (1) defeat the wraith near some kid and let the dad outta the hole (2) scare a gerridae sitting in the water nearby into another hole, which in turn scares the father out into the open.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| IRENES /

**' '**

```
[  35  ]
     [  26  ][  31  ]
     [  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ][  39  ][  44  ][  48  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Irenes is a advocate for peace between demi-humans and regular humans, like her sister Zelbess was. She constantly pleads with Fargo to let her people go back, but to no avail. Will she be successful? It's up to the player to decide...

**AGE:** 16 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Blue · **CAREER:** Late Zelbess's Sister · **ORIGIN:** The Ocean [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'10" · **WEIGHT:** 115 lbs. · **BUILD:** Mermaid · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Pick · **EQUIPS:** Mythril Pick, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** After defeating the Sage of Marbule aboard the S.S. Zelbess, Nikki

asks you to visit him on his ship. If you choose to do this, as well as agree to help him clear Marbule of baddies, Irenes can be invited. SHE IS MISSABLE if you do not talk to Nikki at this time!!

To get 'SirenSong,' you'll have to finish the 'Save Marbule!' quest that is done by (1) defeating the Sage of Marbule aboard the S.S. Zelbess (2) talking with Nikki after defeating said boss, and agreeing to help him clear Marbule of enemies. Invite Irenes at this time. (3) Clearing events at the Tower of Geddon (4) Bring Fargo to meet himself aboard the Zelbess to start the second part of the quest, which is clearing Marbule of enemies and awakening the Black Dragon in the other dimension (5) After the Sea of Eden events, Marbule (Home World) will be re-populated. Talk to the witch doctor in the first home twice with Irenes in the party to get her Lv. 7 Tech.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| MEL /

**' '**

```
[  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Not much to Mel, besides she's Korcha's incredibly bratty sister who has a thing for drawing.

**AGE:** 10 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Yellow · **CAREER:** Doodling Brat · **ORIGIN:** Guldove [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 4'3" · **WEIGHT:** 84 lbs. · **BUILD:** Thin · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Boomerang · **EQUIPS:** Steelerang, Iron Mail · **INVITE:** After the first set of Viper Manor events, when Serge is asked by

Korcha if he'll save Kid, choose the affirmative. Later on, after the Hydra Humour is delivered, Mel will steal Kid's elements. When asked what to do, press Kid to follow Mel and get her stuff back. Once she is caught like the little brat she is, return to Guldove after Korcha takes everyone to Termina and talk to Mel with Kid in the party. She will join up here.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| LEAH /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

Leah's a cute cave-girl who joins up with Serge's party when they find her at Gaea's Navel, en route to the Green Dragon. After she helps them take down a Tyrano and ultimately the boss of the island, she joins up. She really takes after Ayla...

**AGE:** 6 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Yellow · **CAREER:** Cave Girl · **ORIGIN:** Gaea's Navel [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 3'5" · **WEIGHT:** 71 lbs. · **BUILD:** Infantile · **PREFER:** Ambidextrous · **WEAPON:** Axe · **EQUIPS:** Silver Axe, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** During the quest for the Green Dragon at Gaea's Navel [Home World],

she joins up temporarily as long as Serge is on the island. After the Dragon's been defeated, she joins permanently.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| VAN /

**' '**

```
[  22  ][  31  ]
       [  19  ][  20  ][  24  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ][  36  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ][  34  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ][  28  ][  33  ][  40  ][  43  ][  44  ]
       [  17  ][  27  ][  32  ]
```

**The gloomy son of a painter father one dimension rich, the other poor**

he joins up with Serge's crew to make money for rent. He uses a boomerang

and some child-like attacks.

**AGE:** 14 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Green · **CAREER:** Penny-wise Artist · **ORIGIN:** Termina [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 4'11" · **WEIGHT:** 88 lbs. · **BUILD:** Smallish · **PREFER:** Left-handed · **WEAPON:** Boomerang · **EQUIPS:** Silverang, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** Talk to him at his house in Termina [Home World] and hire him for a

bit of tour-guiding. After some events with his father and landlord, he'll join permanently.

A note about PiggyBoink. Put Van in your party and enter his bedroom over at Termina [Home World]. You'll be given the option to deposit money. Doing so will make 'PiggyBoink' do more damage, but also increases the chance of it shattering and restoring its original power.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| SNEFF /

**' '**

```
[  19  ][  20  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ]
       [  17  ]
```

A crazy old magician whose huge debt to the Zelbess casino forced him to work there and pay it off, Fargo's grip is eventually loosened by Serge's meddling and Sneff's lucky streak. He's got a funny lisp, too.

**AGE:** 53 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Yellow · **CAREER:** Aged Illusionist · **ORIGIN:** Unknown · **HEIGHT:** 5'6" · **WEIGHT:** 139 lbs. · **BUILD:** Ordinary · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Decks of cards · **EQUIPS:** Private Deck, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** After Serge defeats Fargo at the Zelbess' roulette game, return there

to find Sneff winning his freedom. Backstage in the theater area, ask him to join up.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| STEENA /

**' '**

```
[  35  ]
     [  26  ][  31  ]
     [  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ][  39  ][  44  ][  48  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

Steena is a wise woman who knows about the ancient race of Draconians. In one world she operates under the Oracle Direa; in the other, she's Guldove's oracle. She's mandatory, since she gives the Dragon Tear to the party later on...

**AGE:** 24 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** White · **CAREER:** Shrine Maiden · **ORIGIN:** Guldove [Home World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'9" · **WEIGHT:** 110 lbs. · **BUILD:** Tall & Slender · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Sword · **EQUIPS:** Silver Sword, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** Show to Oracle Direa [Guldove, Another World] the Tear of Hate that · **Target:** Single foe · **Learns:** Already learned when invited · **Target:** All foes · **Learns:** --- · **Target:** Single foe · **Learns:** ---

was received from Karsh and get a Dragon Emblem. This allows passage into the other dimension's shaman tower, after showing the emblem to the door guard. After all six dragons have been defeated, return and talk to Steena to get her in the party, as well as the Dragon Tear. TECHS-.- DireaShadow - "Summon the eidolon of the last Shrine Maiden" | |- HydraShadow - "Summon the eidolon of a Hydra" | '- GaraiShadow - "Summon the eidolon of Garai"

To get 'HydraShadow,' defeat the De-Hydrate enemy in the Another World Hydra Marshes, with or without Steena in the party. For 'GaraiShadow,' her Lv. 7 tech, bring Steena to see Garai's Grave at (Home World) Isle of the Damned.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| DOC /

**' '**

```
[  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

How bad is your village in when a surfer dude is your village's doctor? Well, pretty good ones it seems, as Doc's handy in most fields of medicine. He's constantly regretting mistakes of his past, but Orlha tries to keep him in good shape by reminding him that he can only do what he's able to, not to give up, etc.

**AGE:** 27 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** White · **CAREER:** Village Physician · **ORIGIN:** Zenan Mainland [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'9" · **WEIGHT:** 146 lbs. · **BUILD:** Ordinary · **PREFER:** Left-handed · **WEAPON:** Shot · **INVITE:** After events at Viper Manor [Another World], at Guldove, when Korcha

EQUIPS: asks if you'll save Kid, tell him you don't know what to do. Later on, after events at the S.S. Invincible, return to Guldove to find that Kid has been miraculously cured. If you do not return at this time (pre-Ft. Dragonia), you will miss Doc permanently! You can't even get him after the events at Ft. Dragonia in the Home World...!

To find HangTen, get the Medical Book key item in the Tower of Geddon. Show it to Doc (make sure he's out of your party) in Another World Guldove and he will learn it...dude.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| GROBYC /

**' '**

```
[  14  ][  18  ][  21  ][  28  ]
     [  04  ][  05  ][  06  ][  13  ][  15  ][  27  ][  32  ][  49  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  07  ][  11  ][  16  ][  25  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  19  ][  22  ][  40  ][  45  ]
     [  09  ][  20  ][  24  ][  29  ][  33  ][  38  ][  42  ][  47  ]
```

A cyborg with an evil streak, but really, it only follows orders of those who are stronger than it. Since Serge whoops it like a red-headed stepchild, this robo-killer approaches him and joins up.

**AGE:** 26 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Black · **CAREER:** Cyborg Assassin · **ORIGIN:** Unknown · **HEIGHT:** 6'8" · **WEIGHT:** 401 lbs. · **BUILD:** Bionic · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Mythril Glove, Mythril Mail · **INVITE:** Joins automatically after passing through Porre-controlled Viper Manor

[Another World].

To find 'StrongArm,' bring Grobyc to Chronopolis [Another World] and make for the second floor. There's a room with many safes on the wall and a large box like a coffin. Inspect the coffin to find an ancient superweapon from Porre, the Lv. 7 tech!

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| PIERRE /

**' '**

```
[  36  ][  38  ][  41  ][  45  ][  46  ]
     [  27  ][  29  ][  30  ][  32  ][  33  ][  34  ][  35  ]
     [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ][  37  ]
     [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  08  ][  15  ][  21  ][  24  ][  44  ]
     [  28  ][  31  ][  33  ][  40  ][  42  ][  43  ][  47  ]
```

Self-proclaimed swordsman extraordinaire, Pierre is mostly a narcissistic klutz who imagines himself a rose and everyone else "thorns." He aims for a spot on Viper's Devas, but ends up being called a street performer. Laff! He has the benefit of having the "Hero" equipment set, though. He also starts with the game's worst, and only Bone Sword. o_O

**AGE:** 23 · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** Blue · **CAREER:** Self-proclaimed Hero · **ORIGIN:** Termina [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'11" · **WEIGHT:** 130 lbs. · **BUILD:** Weakling · **PREFER:** Right-handed · **WEAPON:** Sword · **EQUIPS:** Bone Sword, Ivory Mail, Hero's Medal · **INVITE:** Talk to him in Termina [Another World] inside the armory's sideroom.

He'll say that he's lost his precious medal. Just outside, talk to the kid running around in circles to reclaim it. Show it to Pierre, and he's yours! You cannot get Guile/Nikki if you get Pierre, by the way.

To learn 'SlapofCyrus', make sure to get the Prop Sword from the Tower of Geddon (it's missable). Later, after you do the events at Fort Dragonia [Home World] and get the Serge-recruited characters back, talk to Pierre at Termina [Another World]. The prop sword becomes the 'Hero's Blade' and he'll learn the tech. In-battle, it will ALWAYS miss...that is, unless all three pieces of the Hero's equipment are collected and equipped. They are:

• Hero's Sword • Hero's Shield • Hero's Medal

Consult the walkthrough on how to obtain 'em.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| ORLHA /

**' '**

```
[  19  ][  20  ]
       [  12  ][  14  ][  16  ][  23  ]
       [  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  13  ][  21  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  05  ][  11  ][  18  ][  26  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  10  ][  15  ][  29  ][  35  ][  41  ]
       [  04  ][  06  ][  25  ]
       [  17  ]
```

Orlha's one half of a set of twins, and tends bar in Guldove. She's got a strong sense of what's right and can probably confirm Kid's believe that if someone is kicked hard enough, they'll kiss the moons. She mentions her sis Tia a bit...

**AGE:** 23 · **GENDER:** Female · **INNATE:** Blue · **CAREER:** Gladiatrix Barkeep · **ORIGIN:** Guldove [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** 5'5" · **WEIGHT:** 119 lbs. · **BUILD:** Muscular · **PREFER:** Left-handed · **WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Granite Glove, Stone Mail · **INVITE:** After escaping the Dimensional Vortex, visit Guldove before returning

to Serge's normal form. Fight and defeat Orlha here to receive her 'SapphireBrooch'; after the mandatory events at Fort Dragonia [Home World], show her the brooch and she'll join.

To obtain 'SisterHoods,' after Orlha joins the party, have her meet with Doc in Home World Guldove. A few scenes regarding Tia later, she'll obtain the Lv. 7 tech with her sister's blessing.

<!-- MIXED -->

**. .**

| PIP /

**' '**

ANGEL/DEVIL FORMS

```
[  23  ][  24  ][  27  ]
       [  16  ][  18  ][  20  ][  29  ]
       [  11  ][  13  ][  14  ][  17  ][  19  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  10  ][  12  ][  21  ]
       [  06  ][  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  15  ][  25  ]
```

ARCHANGEL FORM

```
[  23  ][  24  ][  27  ][  32  ][  36  ][  45  ]
       [  16  ][  18  ][  20  ][  26  ][  31  ][  35  ][  44  ][  46  ]
       [  11  ][  13  ][  14  ][  17  ][  19  ][  29  ][  33  ][  41  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  10  ][  12  ][  21  ][  28  ][  38  ]
       [  06  ][  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  15  ][  25  ][  37  ][  43  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  04  ][  05  ][  39  ]
```

ARCHDEVIL FORM

```
[  30  ][  33  ]
       [  23  ][  24  ][  27  ][  41  ]
       [  16  ][  18  ][  20  ][  29  ][  35  ]
       [  11  ][  13  ][  14  ][  17  ][  19  ][  29  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  10  ][  12  ][  21  ][  31  ][  39  ]
       [  06  ][  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  15  ][  25  ][  37  ][  43  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  03  ][  34  ][  38  ]
       [  05  ][  28  ]
```

HOLY BEAST FORM

```
[  36  ]
       [  23  ][  24  ][  27  ]
       [  16  ][  18  ][  20  ][  26  ][  38  ][  45  ]
       [  11  ][  13  ][  14  ][  17  ][  19  ][  32  ][  43  ]
       [  00  ][  00  ][  00  ][  10  ][  12  ][  21  ][  37  ][  40  ]
       [  06  ][  07  ][  08  ][  09  ][  15  ][  25  ][  34  ][  46  ]
       [  01  ][  02  ][  28  ][  29  ][  31  ][  33  ]
```

Pip's a remarkable character in that he will evolve based on how he battles,

and what elements are used on him. I highly recommend reading up on his FAQ

**(http: db.gamefaqs.com/console/psx/file/chrono_cross_tumalu.txt) to learn**

about evolving him. He can be quite formidable, but always grows CUTER!

**AGE:** Unknown · **GENDER:** Male · **INNATE:** White · **CAREER:** Guinea Pig Experiment · **ORIGIN:** Viper Manor Lab [Another World] · **HEIGHT:** Unknown · **WEIGHT:** Unknown · **BUILD:** Unknown · **PREFER:** Dominant paw unknown

**WEAPON:** Gloves · **EQUIPS:** Bronze Glove, Bronze Mail · **INVITE:** When the party reaches the S.S. Invincible, he'll be there hiding from · **NOTE:** He will be here whether or not you

the ghosts. Pester him until he moves towards the stairway and he'll free him from his cage in Viper Manor.]

Pip only gets one of the attacks from 'HeavenCalls' on down, depending on the form he evolves into. Also, the current Lv. 7 tech becomes 'Pounce+4' on a New Game Plus, where you'll have to evolve Pip again.
