<a id="s5-10"></a>

## 5.10. Frame List

What's a frame, you ask? Why, it's the border around the text box! Unlike the other games you may find, this game has them as 'items' you can earn or get through various fashions. To select window frames, simply go into the main menu's Customize tab and select them from there. Note these have absolutely no bearing on the game WHATSOEVER, but they're still fun to collect if you wanna change-up how the text boxes look.

• Arnian Wood - Available at the start of the game • Simple Line - Available at the start of the game • Iron Plate - Available at the start of the game

• Shellfish - In Home World Arni, search the salesgirl's cart to get

• Tea for Three - In Another World Termina, run up the stairs by where the statue polisher is. There is a person standing in the shade (player can't see him) and if you talk to him and say you understand him, he'll give this over.

• Porre's Furnace - After the events at Viper Manor [Another World], when

you return to Termina after visiting Guldove, go back to Viper Manor. In the library tower, search behind a desk to find a trapdoor that leads to a secret room. Talk with the BeachBum to get this rusty frame.

• Skullduggery - In Another World Shadow Forest, use the Aroma Pouch to attract the red blob-thing located near the entrance, making it follow you. Bring it to the 3rd screen where the Quadffid is blocking the path and feed it to it. It shrinks and gives the frame before it runs away...

• Tropical Paradise - If you tell Korcha that you can't save Kid during the mandatory Guldove events, Macha will end up helping our protagonist out, giving him this automatically.

• Guldovian Stitch - When Korcha asks Serge if he'll save Kid, say he will and proceed with the game's course. Later on, after she is revived, Mel will steal her elements. Choose to find her, even if Kid protests, and continue to Termina once again. When Korcha lends his boat over, talk to Mel and get this (as well as her in the party!)

• Infrared Vision - At Home World Fossil Valley, go 'upstairs' to where the large dragon skeleton is and search behind the skull to find the frame in a neat, li'l chest.

• Valencian Cloth - In Another World Marbule, form a party consisting only of demi-humans and talk to the guy in blue near the town entrance to get this. You can only get this item as Lynx when he has two other demihumans in the party, and only before awakening the Black Dragon during the 2nd part of the "Save Marbule" sidequest.

• Monster's Mouth - On the S.S. Zelbess, after Sneff turns everyone into a cat, go upstairs to the kitchen and use the cat door to get inside. Talk to the cat in there and it will give this as a gift, meow.

• Our Favorite - After defeating Starky at Home World Sky Dragon Isle, Martian re-enter the screen and talk to the man in green. He's in the mood to give you this generous gift.

• Snakes & Orbs - At Another World Gaea's Navel, find the Prehysteric (small humanoid monster) that is standing alone up in a tree. Defeat it and this will be received afterward.

• Quill and Papyrus - After completing the 'Save Marbule!' sidequest, return to the village after the Chronopolis events to find it settled again. Talk to Toma in the Black Dragon's Cave (x2) and he'll give it over
