<a id="s5-12"></a>

## 5.12. The Bend of Time

End of Time with a twist? Hmm...

The Bend of Time first becomes available after getting the Porre boat in Home World Termina. It's a small unmarked island between the main human-populated El Nido island and Marbule. Once you enter with the x-button, it will show up as such (in both worlds).

As the jelly-blob octopus monster standing inside will say, this is an arena where monsters from across dimensions can gather to fight...meaning it's the place to be for collecting Sprigg's Dopplegangs, getting rare drops and such, as well as an easy outlet to using summons. Monsters show up inside the light pillars infinitely, and they all come from different regions of the game. At first there is only a few pillars of light to represent the areas Serge has traveled, but eventually, all eight will be represented. There's not much to say on the subject, besides enemies that are missed can still show up here.

<!-- MIXED -->

**To Special Battle Now, for the special battle info.**

**' 4\ There is a backdoor to this place**

**3\ that will always be locked on the 1st**

**2\ runthrough of the game. Try to enter**

**1\ it, and the octopus-thing will say it**

**8 / isn't time 'yet.' What's he refering**

**7 /'- Save to, then?**

**6**

**5 '-Enter The answer is that it only unlocks on**

**a 'New Game Plus,' and allows access**

to three of the game's special foes

that can be Doppleganged, as well as one of the best accessories in the game,

the "Dreamer's Sarong." When the time comes to open the door (which is anytime

on a NG+), enter inside. The orange octopus-monster wants everyone to do three

laps around the room. Start at the entrance and run around the railing as well

as you can; do it right and a 'ding!' sound will play. After three, the octo-

-blob disappears and is replaced by the three goons from Chrono Trigger. Hey

there, fellas!

| BOSS: Flea | INNATE: Red | HP: 1200 | Dreamer's Sash (100%) |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| BOSS: Ozzie | INNATE: Green | HP: 2000 | Ozzie Pants (100%) |  |
| BOSS: Slash | INNATE: Blue | HP: 1900 | Slasher, Third Eye |  |
| ELEMENTS: Volcano, Tornado, Iceberg |  |  |  |  |
| TO STEAL: Flea  = Winged Shoes / Flea Vest |  |  |  |  |
| Ozzie = Antidote / Tornado |  |  |  |  |
| Slash = Iceberg |  |  |  |  |
| SPECIALS: OmegaRed (red-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| WindSlash (blue-innate damage on one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| DashSlash (blue-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| OmegaBlue (blue-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| OmegaBlack (black-innate damage on one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| OmegaGreen (green-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| OmegaWhite (white-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| OmegaYellow (yellow-innate damage to one ally) |  |  |  |  |
| TheStare (red-innate damage on all allies + Confused) |  |  |  |  |
| MaxDefense (green-innate; bosses're 'Asleep', can't be damaged) |  |  |  |  |
| PATTERNS: (Flea ) TheStare to Attack ×2 to Volcano to Attack ×2 to |  |  |  |  |
| OmegaRed to OmegaYellow (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| [2] (Flea ) (TheStare) -> (Attack) -> (Volcano) -> (Attack) -> |  |  |  |  |
| (OmegaRed) -> OmegaYellow -> [To Pattern #1] |  |  |  |  |
| (Ozzie) Attack to MaxDefense to Attack to OmegaGreen to Tornado |  |  |  |  |
| to Attack to OmegaBlack (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| [2] (Ozzie) [Pattern #1] -> MaxDefense -> Attack -> MaxDefense -> |  |  |  |  |
| Attack -> [To Patterh #1] |  |  |  |  |
| (Slash) Attack to WindSlash to Attack to DashSlash to OmegaBlue |  |  |  |  |
| to Iceberg to OmegaWhite to Attack (×??) |  |  |  |  |
| [2] (Slash) (WindSlash) -> (DashSlash) -> (OmegaBlue) -> (Iceberg) |  |  |  |  |
| -> OmegaWhite -> [To Pattern #1] |  |  |  |  |

First things first: use Fargo to steal the Flea Vest, since it's the only

one in the game. After that, dig into the actual fighting. Flea should bite

the big one first since he (yes, 'he') uses TheStare to confuse everyone.

Powerful physical attacks slice him up pretty well, especially with everyone

having bolstered ATK on a NG+. Ozzie's next up if you want, mostly because

'MaxDefense' prevents all damage and puts his allies to sleep as well. It's

vexing, but only wears off after repeated (failed) attacking. He's also

VERY slow, getting in one attack to his friends' three, so it's not much of

a challenge to be honest. Slash's physical attacks and techs will suck...it

doesn't get much simpler than that. Still, use Diminish if you're having a

**difficult time it's a lifesaver wherever you go! Most can be inflicted**

with status effects (Fatigued, etc.) but they'll absorb their own element,

so don't be too reckless and heal 'em in the meantime. When each is in

critical, they'll finish out the rest of their attack pattern with a bit

**of streamlining Slash quits using regular attacks, Flea bumps his Attack**

×2's down to singulars, and Ozzie uses an extra MaxDefense (although the

effects do not overlap). Note that each time you flee battle, you will have

to run the three laps again. That would seem very annoying, but with the

Time Shifter, it's not a problem. Make sure you don't defeat any with

summons, or you'll miss the drops and get shiny items; and, make sure you've

got a Forget-me-not Pot to get these guys Dopplegang'd, dude! It's also a

**good idea to restart if you don't get the Ozzie Pants and Slasher drops**

they're unique accessories.

After defeating the 'Mystic Knights,' the orange octopus-thing will want you to run some more laps. If you run the exact number of times it has in its head, it will give the [DREAMER'S SARONG] over. It'll give three hints as to the right amount (in a hot/cold way) and the fourth time will the be the do- -or-die moment. If you get it wrong, no biggie; just re-enter and try once again. The number it thinks of will be less than 20 each time and randomized, but when it says "Whoa! Almost!" it means you're very close, within 2~3 about.

The Dreamer's Sarong starts a character off with a full element grid when the battle begins, meaning any element is immediately usable. Very nice for the last battle's ChronoCross input method.
