<a id="s5-14"></a>

## 5.14. Rainbow Shells

A.K.A. @Rainbow Shells, these are rare components needed for the creation of rainbow equipment. Finding them isn't usually as easy as opening a treasure chest, and most are missable if you're not keepin' your eyes peeled. Here's a list of where to get them (chronological order). [HW] stands for Home World and [AW] stands for Another World.

#01 - This is the first event you can do, but it becomes unavailable later in the game (post-Tower of Geddon). After finishing the mandatory events in Guldove [AW], return to Arni and talk with the waitress at the cafe. Go ahead and use the Astral Amulet at Opassa Beach to find the Home World again, and visit the Arni cafe there. Talk to the waitress here and receive a [BOOK OF POEMS] to show the waitress in the other world. Get back to Arni [AW] and show the book to the un-idealistic waitress and receive a Rainbow Shell in the end...!

#02 - Dropped rarely by WightKnight enemy on Isle of the Damned [HW]. Find this enemy in the screen before Garai's grave by luring a WillO'Wisp down to the old suit of armor, then killing said enemy. The flame'll possess the equipment and the enemy will appear.

#03 - A @Rainbow Shell can be won as the best prize from the spinner game in the Zelbess' casino [AW]. There is a foolproof trick to getting through, however. Pause the game until the spinner's tip falls in between the south and west markers; unpause and quickly stop the spinner to hit north each time.

#04 - There's one in the itemseller's cart in Arni Village [AW]. When you first try to dig into her stash early in the game, she rebuffs Serge and says it's not for sale. Later, after events at Tower of Geddon, everyone will be hiding at the chief's pad. Pocket it at this point.

#06 - At Earth Dragon Isle [HW], after you jump into the quicksand pit and leave via the sandboil, talk with the foreman once again to be given a Rainbow Shell.

#07 - Steal one from Criosphinx, a boss located at Earth Dragon Isle [AW]. It's the only item that can be stolen.

#08 - Steal one from Dark Serge, a boss located at Fort Dragonia [HW]. Rack

this one up as a rare steal, which will probably annoy you quite a lot

**if you absolutely gotta have it.**

#09 - Water Dragon Isle [AW]. The researcher who gave a piece of Skelly can give this over, assuming Serge has completed events at Fort Dragonia [HW].

#10 - PolisPolice, a boss located at Time Fortress Chronopolis [HW], carries a shell as a rare steal.

#11 - On Chronopolis' third floor, take the left door from the elevator's lobby. In a small backroom there's a chest containing the prize.

#12 - After obtaining the ChronoCross (or Mastermune), find Kid at Hermit's Hideaway [AW] and be sent back in time to her orphanage. In the first room, rescue the kid behind the clock and talk to him again to receive this gift.

#13 - In the same orphanage as #10, find the girl hiding under the bed on the second floor, in the same room as the removable floor panel. She bestows the 'shell on Serge after the room's cleared of Lava-boys.

#14 - Once the orphanage flashback is completed, Radius tells Kid Luccia at Viper Manor [AW] wanted to talk to her. Go there with Kid in the party to read a letter "Sis" left her, containing a Rainbow Shell!

#15 - After events at Time Fortress Chronopolis, El Nido Triangle [AW] will be accessible. One's in a first-screen chest.

#16 - In the same location as #15, just in the 2nd screen with the UFO.

#17 - After winding through Terra Tower [AW] a bit, a multi-ledge area with waterfalls and TerraTerrors will have to be climbed. In a niche here, there's a shell.

#18 - Further on in Terra Tower [AW], defeat Pyrotor and continue into the next area where some Cupoids roam. There's a chest with a shell to be found here.

#19 - The screen right after #16 has TerraTerrors walking along a broken sluiceway/canal area. Along the eastern wall, at the very northern point, is a shell.

You can also find two spectral weapons per playthrough that have a Rainbow Shell inside, being the Betta Carotene for Janice, and a Spectral Glove for fist-fighters. Both are missable as they're found in Terra Tower. Many people like to disassemble the carrot weapon for the raw elements because they also come with one of each shiny material! That makes a total of 20 possible ways to get @Rainbow Shell components that I can see.

E-mail me if I've forgotten anything!
