<a id="s5-6"></a>

## 5.6. Endings

Like Chrono Trigger before it, defeating the final boss can be accomplished in different time periods. On a normal playthrough, only #1 and 2 can be done; on a New Game Plus, all the rest have the potential to be unlocked. Obviously, things concerning the endings will be SPOILERS-rific, so I'll not reveal anythin' but the crucial details. If you DO want the nitty-gritty on what goes down, consult:

**http: db.gamefaqs.com/console/psx/file/chrono_cross_ending_a.txt**

Well, here's the minor rundown.

#01 - Defeat the TimeDevourer at Opassa Beach by simply attacking it blindly and not using the ChronoCross method.

#02 - Defeat the TimeDevourer at Opassa Beach by _NOT_ attacking it blindlym but by using the ChronoCross method.

#03 - Defeat the TimeDevourer at Opassa Beach [Home World] before you do any of Leena's scale-hunting. He has to be alone, so don't bring Poshul with or anything.

#04 - Destroy the TimeDevourer before picking a guide for Viper Manor.

#05 - Trash the TimeDevourer after post-Viper Manor events in Guldove, when you find out Kid's been poisoned with hydra venom. Choose the option to save Kid but defeat the TD before doing so.

#06 - Finish the TimeDevourer after Kid recovers from her poison (this can be

done on either path, although if you chose not to save her, you may have

to visit Guldove again to get her in the party) but before you storm Ft.

Dragonia. [NOTE: There's a variance in this ending if Korcha was able to

**propose to Kid at Termina she had to have been in the party after she**

recovered from the poison, and Korcha rowed everyone back to town.]

#07 - Finish the TimeDevourer after Kid recovers from her poison, but before

you enter Ft. Dragonia. Nikki and Razzly must both have been invited (you

need to pick Nikki as a guide in the Termina events, and choose to save

**Kid to get Razzly) and Kid must have been invited back into the party**

she can be missed, y'know!

#08 - Defeat the TimeDevourer after escaping the Temporal Vortex but before you go to Viper Manor to rescue Riddel.

**#09 - Defeat the TimeDevourer RIGHT after rescuing Riddel.**

#10 - Defeat the TimeDevourer after Harle leaves the party, which is once you have visited the 'Pearly Gates'.

#11 - Defeat the TD after (1) events at Home Fort Dragonia that allow Serge to repossess his original body (2) defeating Dario & getting a Mastermune; but, do this before finishing the Chronopolis events in the Sea of Eden. This is a funny ending. :p

#12 - Defeat the TD after Terra Tower has risen (post-Chronopolis) but before the tower sinks back into the ocean (defeating the TD at the top).
